Next ideas, few don't have any idea about what pelvic floor is and few says it is for strengthening, it is for supporting, control urine and bowel movement. Yes, of course, cronchology it does that. Okay, so I see few of the few of familiar faces also, as I see in my classes. So I'll give a brief about myself as well. My name is Sheetal Anand. I am a pre and postnatal expert, and I also take workshops regarding pelvic floor labor and on breathing and in the exercises you need to do, and how to recover after the delivery, that is what I do. How do you do that during the postpartum as well? Or how and why? And not why, but of course, we know why, but how do we begin exercising after the delivery thing? So that is also an important aspect of it that I'll be covering regarding the pelvic floor. Okay, so it will be great if I can see you all. If you can keep your cameras turned on. Hi, Hi Kaungori ji. Okay. Okay, guys. So, as this is all about pelvic floor, I'll be sharing my screen. Just give me a thumbs up if my screen is visible to you. Yeah, it is. Great. So the topics that we'll be covering today will be regarding pelvic floor, what it is, why it matters, and how to care for it. Care for it, not just during the pregnancy, but how to care for it after the pregnancy also. We'll be talking all about it. But as it is all inclusive workshop, what do I mean by that is all the trimesters and weeks of pregnancy are here. We can't focus more on just labor where the pelvic floor engagement requires more, but I'll be trying to cater to all the trimesters and covering how the pelvic floor is in first, second and third trimester as well. So overall, I'll be catering to it and not much exercises, of course, we are not doing today, but I'll try to include a few screen shots that you can during the labor specifically. So this is the point that we are doing, but this needs to be kept in mind that anyone restricted with movements or with any complications, maybe low-lying placentas, position, cervical stitches, or any other personal complications. Please don't follow that generalized advice. Every case of pregnancy is different, but if you are with certain complications, it becomes a special case which needs special attention and maybe some variations in the exercises and breathing as well sometimes. So we take it as per it. So in case if you are with certain complications, please don't follow the generalized advice. I'll try to include as many variations as I can for the complications as well, but let's try to understand that we can't cover all of it in just one hour. So what is pelvic floor? Why it matters and how to care for it? So there are two things that comes when I say pelvic floor. One is the pelvic floor bones and one are the pelvic floor muscles. Pelvic floor bones can also be just visualized as a shape of a bowl. Visualize the shape of a bowl. How it is? It is covering from the sides. Remove the bottom part. We are not talking about the bottom part. It's just the sides of the bowl covering your organs there. So that is the pelvic floor bones. But now when we talk about the pelvic floor muscles, pelvic floor bones can also be renamed as pelvic girdle, the hard part which you feel. So everyone, I want you to do a small thing. So just place your hands by the side exactly where you wear your lowers. Can you feel that hard part, some spiking out part, bony area? Give me a thumbs up if you can feel that. Are you here with me? We all can feel that? Yes, can we feel that? So we can feel that, right? There is a small, not a small but a hard area. So that is the beginning of your pelvic girdle area. Just a second, I'll check the text. Unfortunately, you won't be able to switch on the video. That's okay, Divya ji. Apply it on. That's absolutely fine. What to do if I have severe pain with pelvic bone while lying down or sitting up? I'll take the questions towards the end. I'll try to cover as much as I can with the questions. So we can feel some hard part of it when we touch it. So that is the beginning of your pelvic girdle. And when you sit, those are the sit bones. So there are hip muscles. Muscles are there in the hips. But what is above the muscles? There is the bone. So that is the covering of the pelvic area. So it's like a covering here. Okay, now when I talk about pelvic muscles, what is the pelvic floor muscles? If you can see this, it is a group of muscles and connective tissues that form a bowel-like structure at the base of your pelvis. So I am sure the visual will help you understand this better. The pelvic floor muscle attaches from the pelvic bone, which I just mentioned about the pelvic bone, like a bone structure. It attaches the pelvic bone to your tailbone and from one sit bone to the other. So as I already mentioned, the sit bone on which we are actually sitting right now. Think of it as the foundation of your entire bone. So visualize all the organs in your abdomen area. The liver, kidney, the intestines, the uterus, the vagina and the bladder. All of the organs just sitting on that pelvic bone. Pelvic muscle I would mean. Holding all the things up steady and supporting that. So that is the pelvic floor muscle. Another visualization that I would want you to keep in mind to make it easier for you is a hammock. Have you all seen a hammock near a sea beach or something? So the pelvic floor muscles are like that hammock. Yeah. Can we all relate to it or just imagine or visualize maybe with this visual or maybe with the visualization of a hammock? Yes. Now imagine that you are sitting on that hammock. And what are you right now? You are all the organs. When you are sitting, just imagine how much pressure there is on the pelvic floor. On that hammock. So that is the thing that it makes it important to keep the pelvic muscles engaged or work on the pelvic floor muscles. Yes. Are we here when I am saying that? Do you now get a gist of maybe just a small idea? We don't go very much deep into the anatomy of it, but a basic understanding for better referencing and just to be more aware of it. Yeah. So that is the pelvic floor. And as you can see the pelvic floor, it's what all organs it is supporting and how it is connecting from the back of the spine, the base of the spine, that is the tailbone area, how it is supporting majorly the uterus in the center. And can you imagine when the uterus is expanding during pregnancy, how much weight it puts on the pelvic floor muscles? So that's why it is important to train the pelvic floor muscles. And now when we are going ahead towards the training of the pelvic floor muscles, it becomes important to understand how we are doing that. So before that, we shift on to what does the pelvic floor do? Can the functions hold the pelvic floor? It is there, but of course it is supporting the organs, your pelvic organs, the bladder, uterus and the rectum. But exactly all of the things that it helps us in, as already someone mentioned in the chat box, that pelvic floor also helps to control the bowel movement, the controlling of the pee and the holding and letting go of the gas. So these are a few things that pelvic floor helps us to do. So sometimes we also come across a lot of cases during pregnancy specifically of incontinence, which is that they are not able to control or hold their pee. What is not in their control is the pelvic floor muscles.
that is the problem there and of course there are a lot of things that we can do to avoid that but what is affected when you are facing incontinence either in during pregnancy or sometimes in old age as well is the loss of control over pelvic floor yeah pelvic floor muscles to be more specific here so how it is also as I as we already saw how it is attached to the tailbone that is your spine and from the back to your pubic bone so as I already mentioned the pubic the pelvic girdle attaching like a bowl shaped structure how the pelvic muscles are going from there attaching like a hammock so one end from the spine and one end to the pubic bone that's how it is so how it is also stabilizing your spine and the pelvis sometimes during pregnancy we do face a lot of tailbone pains right along with working on your spinal health and spine mobility if you work on your pelvic floor muscles to have control over the pelvic floor muscles it will help you to ease your spinal pain also it can be made though it can be a little of your tailbone and your lower backs as well majorly your tailbone okay so pelvic floor of course plays a huge role in the sexual functions working with your diaphragm now when I talk about diaphragm it is really important to talk a little about the breathing part of it as well so I just want you to be seated straight we'll take this nothing much just wherever you are you can just relax breathe easy take some time to relax your spine don't be seated in a hunched posture just relax your abdomen chest and shoulders take some time to breathe naturally by the side of your chest exactly where your lingerie comes not on the waist guys on the side of the chest I want you to take few deep breaths in and out comfortable yet long deep breaths in and out when our hands are there can you feel that expansion of the body from the sides also are we there can we feel that you're not going deep into the breathing but this is just for your better understanding practically can we feel that expansion from the sides as well maybe just imagine a rubber ring and it is expanding from the sides when you are breathing at least give me a thumbs up or maybe a thumbs down if you could couldn't feel yes most of you you see that we can feel the expansion from the side region as well what are these these are the rib areas but of course how the ribs are also expanding there's a diaphragm muscle right under your lungs sits the diaphragm muscles okay so just visualize how there are diaphragm muscles up here and there's the pelvic floor here what will happen when we are breathing when we are inhaling to be specific the diaphragm muscles goes down so imagine the diaphragm muscles to be straight and tightened when I'm inhaling deep it loosens and goes down that gives another pressure on the pelvic floor it also goes down so just visualize the hammock pelvic floor yeah when I'm inhaling the diaphragm muscle is going down the pelvic floor is also going down visualize you lying down on that hammock how will the hammock be it will be more down and straight yes that's how the movement of the pelvic floor and diaphragm is when we are breathing yeah I'm telling you this to just get or just see so a seed of a deeper idea of how the breathing also goes to the pelvis area or how the breathing helps the pelvic floor okay and now we are exhaling when we are exhaling the diaphragm muscles moves up organs moves in and the pelvic floor again comes back and tightens so visualize you are coming down on that sitting down on that hammock how it goes down that is that is what the movement of the pelvic floor is when you are inhaling and when you are exhaling it's the same movement when the hammock relaxes as you come out of it or as you exhale the pelvic floor also relaxes along with the diaphragm that is exactly what happens when we are breathing and just a brief idea of how breathing breathing gives that momentum or movement to that diaphragm that to pelvic floor muscles so pelvic floor works with your diaphragm when we are breathing and diaphragm is of course a major muscle for the breathing involved in the breathing process deep core and glutes so as the core area is also the organs and muscles are there it is also sitting down on that pelvic floor muscles it's giving a good pressure there and the pelvic floor helps to manage that pressure and movement through your whole body you get what I am saying I hope at least you are here with me till the point how the breathing is reaching to the pelvic area yes later we will go deep into the types of breathing or the types of movement but just to give you a better example better understanding of at least how the breathing is impacting the pelvic area yes everyone is clear with me till now what I am saying okay yeah so let's move on pelvic floor what we understood till now is the normal functioning and in a regular human body but what exactly happens and why does the pelvic floor or talking about why there is such a great you know it's a great topic pelvic floor during pregnancy specifically so why does it matters during pregnancy as I already mentioned all the organs are sitting on that pelvic floor and specifically your uterus so visualize the uterus sitting on that pelvic floor or the pelvic floor acting like a chair for that uterus and where your baby is growing so of course it is an important muscle to talk about or to take care of so a healthy pelvic floor isn't just there are a few myths also which will be we will be decoding a little later a healthy pelvic floor isn't just tight or strong it is dynamic during breathing also we understood that it should be flexible enough to go down and flexible enough to come up as well so too much tightening what will it cause it will not let the muscles ease or allow you to sit down so just visualize the hammock is tied so tightly or the material of that hammock is not stretchable you get what I am saying what will happen when you sit on it it will give a good pressure and it might tear apart it might not support the weight of it so it should be flexible it should be dynamic it needs to contract and relax and lengthen in rhythm with your breath and movement that's why we are working a lot on the pelvic floor even during our classes of during our yoga classes a lot of emphasis is laid on that pelvic floor because we want to keep that pelvic floor muscles in our control in dynamic movement so that when we want it is strengthened when we want it is loosening and it is in rhythm of our breath when we are breathing inhaling it is that flexible that it is allowing that support or stretching enough for the muscles or the organs to sit on it comfortably and when we are exhaling it is also coming back to its neutral position as I already mentioned even if the pelvic floor muscles are
are too tight, it is an issue. Now imagine, we understood that if it is too tight, it is an issue. But what is the problem when it is too weak? What will happen when the hammock is too weak? When you will sit on it, you will fall to the ground or the pelvic muscles might, you know, the hammock material will go all the way down and not supporting your weight. That's also a problem. So we need to be in between and in balance, control and coordination. That is our goal, which we are targeting during the pregnancy and during our classes as well. Not keeping it too tight, not keeping it too weak, but in balance. And keeping it tight also comes as per the trimester wise. So during the first trimester, when we are already, when we are just wanting, when we are just at the point where the weight of the body is increasing or the weight of the uterus or the weight of the baby is increasing, we want the pelvic floor to support. That is the point when we want it to be supportive and not to be too weak. So that time we increase the kind of exercises where we are wanting to keep it a little tight. That's why during the second trimesters, we don't want to hold the malasana or hold the lower squats for a lot duration because we don't want to loosen it too much at that time. Okay, so during the second trimester, we don't want the baby to come down early. We don't want early labor. When the weight of the baby is increasing as it is giving too much pressure on the pelvic floor, we want the pelvic floor to hold the baby for a little more longer until we reach our labor. So that is the point when we want to keep it tight. Right? So that is how we are adding more of dynamic movements. Okay, again, coming back to the point that when I say squats, this is not a generalized suggestion for everyone, as it comes with variations of trimesters, variations of any complications, histories and a lot of other things. Yeah. So as we are doing this, but a generalized understanding for you, second trimesters, we don't go for too much of loosening of pelvic floor. Right? But as we move towards the third trimester, now what we want is the baby's descent down. And now when we are coming close to labor, maybe say 35 plus weeks when you are ready to deliver somewhere 37 weeks or maybe ready to deliver, your pelvic floor is still holding the baby or it is too tight. Will it help? No. Right? You want it to loosen so that the baby's descent is helping the muscles to loosen. If it is too tight, it is resisting the movement of the baby. It is resisting baby's movement downwards. Am I making sense to all of you? What I'm talking about? So now do you get a gist of why do we want it to be dynamic, not too tight, not to lose or in just a second, not too tight, not to lose, but in a dynamic, flexible motion in a balanced, controlled and coordinated way. Yeah. So just take this few seconds to sink in of the trimesters or just visualize how the pelvis is or whatever trimester you are in right now. Just take a few seconds to visualize how your pelvic floor might be, how the baby might be, must be there. Just soak in a little bit. There's too much to understand. I don't want to overheat you with all the information. Just take this time to soak up. Relaxes out. So as we are moving towards labor, we want it to be a little tight also, but ready to loosen when we want it to loosen. That's why it is said to keep it in our control. The variations of the exercises in the second trimester and third trimesters are also different. The duration for which we are holding or the type of exercises or the depth of the practice is different. That's why there's a different patch for Gerber and Lingoprep of course. So your pelvic floor impacts how you move, breathe, lift and even recover every single day. So as I already mentioned, of course, it is necessary to keep it in our control during pregnancy, but it becomes a lot more important to keep it in our control after the delivery process during your postpartum. Because that is the point. One of the most important things one of the most common thing that the ladies face after delivery is incontinence. That is loss of being able to control the pee. So again, as I already mentioned, the key is the pelvic floor. So how the pelvic floor is impacting your recovery also. Breath we have definitely seen. How the movement is important. We just saw right now how the movements of squats and everything is important to train the pelvic muscles. Breath, how it impacts or moves the pelvic muscles. Of course, the lifting and the baby's lifted movements during the second trimester and the first trimester is also necessary and how the pelvic floor is helping in that. Recovery, every single day we are working on the pelvic floor, not just to deliver better, but to recover better after delivery as well. So it is not just during pregnancy, guys. It is not just the way you deliver. It is also for your own personal recovery process. That's why it is important to train the pelvic muscles. How you are seated, the effect, the pelvic muscles affects the posture as well. As I already mentioned, it is attached to the base of your spine and the base of your spine sets the posture, how you are seated. Either you are hunched or you are way too stiff or you are at an easy, confident posture. That also depends on the pelvic floor. The pressure and how core actually functions. All of the muscles are interrelated. The core, your diaphragm, your pelvic floor, all of it are related. When you understand how to work with your body instead of against it, everything changes. So as we are saying, when we are in the third trimester and we want to loosen, so we want to loosen it. We don't want the pelvic floor to resist that. So we want to work with the body and not against it at every phase. And one of the most important point comes here to listen to your body. The more you are connected to your body, the more your body will automatically tell you what is the right movement for you, what is the right intensity for you and how to build that movement. It is with continuous practice and building that awareness with yourself. Unless you build that awareness, no matter how well you are, you know, how many such workshops you are attending, it might not help you unless you are very much aware of your own body. This is of course adding to that awareness, but your personal awareness towards your body will help you a lot during the delivery and even the recovery process. So that is how it matters majorly during pregnancy and partly during the recovery as well. So how can you identify that your pelvic floor is weak? So there are a few points as you can already see. One is that I have already talked about a lot is urinary incontinence, heaviness, dragging or pressure. So when we feel a lot of pressure, of course, that is unavoidable during pregnancy, but sometimes few of the ladies experience a lot of it, which which makes walking even difficult for them sometimes. So we want to make sure that we make it even difficult for them sometimes or setting up standing movements, very simple movements, day to day life movements also very difficult for them to do. That is a symptom of a weak pelvic floor, a lot of low back pain, hip pain, a little bit of all these symptoms are okay, but you don't, but a lot of it or unbearable amount of it becomes the point when you can begin to work on your pelvic floor. Constipation, as it is also supporting your core and abdominal organs, intestine being one of it, your gut being one of it. If it is not well trained and the bowel movement, as I already mentioned, the
pelvic floor also controls your bowel movement. If it is not in your control, you might tend to have constipation or maybe other gut related issues as well. So sometimes when we are constipated, we only work on our diet and maybe not on our movement or feeling the pelvic floor. So that can be the key to solve your constipation issue sometimes. So during pregnancy, we hear a lot of people dealing with constipation. Of course, a lot of things are changing, but keeping that in control by training the pelvic floor, keeping in mind all the other things as well. So I'm not saying only if you train your pelvic floor, it will be great or it will be sorted. Unless you work on your diet or a wholesome lifestyle, it will not work. Just working on the pelvic floor also won't work. But a balance and mixture of everything, the holistic thing that we always talk about, that is something that will help you deal with it. But I'm just pointing out here that constipation, if you're constipated and if you're already working on your diet, you have good walking and there's good mobility, then try to work on your pelvic floor muscles as well. That might be a reason of your constipation as well. Difficulty controlling bowel movement, as I already covered that. Pelvic pain, pubic pain or discomfort. A little bit of it is there as a lot of changes are happening, but with a good movement and a strong pelvic floor. A strong pelvic floor, what do I mean by that? Not too tight or too loose. Strong means dynamic and flexible, that you are able to have that control over your pelvic floor. And a very later aspect, if the pelvic floor is not at all supporting, it's very weak or it's very tight, it can also appear as a bulge in your vagina, which is an extreme case, but just to mention it later. Now, as we go ahead, I would want to take your mind towards one of the major things. Okay, I'll first want to mention that before you read it out for yourself. It is one of the major things that we have, we might have definitely come across is Kegels. Right? Kegels, Kegels, Kegels exercise breathing, pelvic floor tightening and loosening. I'm sure most of them, if not all, at least 40% must have heard that word. Kegels? Yes. Come on, at least interact. Oh, yes. Hello. No, not started with it. Okay. No. Okay. So I see few of you have heard, few of you haven't heard. First, I'll tell you what Kegels is. Kegels is a sort of pulling in your muscles in the pelvic floor in and loosening it. Okay. So it's the same feeling of you holding your pee and you letting go of your pee. Can you just maybe for a round or two, can you do that? You don't have to do it with your hand. I'm just showing it. Tighten, pull it in and loosen it. Can we all do that? Can you feel it? Yes, that is Kegels. Nothing much complicated, but just maybe for business purpose or whatever it is. It has been much, very much popularized as like a lot of other breathing techniques as well. But yeah, that is what Kegels is and what it does, if you see, it is tightening and loosening. But what if we practice Kegels when the pelvic floor is already tight? Do we want to tighten it more? No, right? So Kegels is not always very facial. And what if we practice Kegels during our 35th week maybe when we are ready to deliver? Do we want to pull it up? Do we want to pull the pelvic muscles up? Pelvic floor up, right? We want to loosen it, right? So there are, this is the biggest myth that Kegels helps. And when a pregnant lady hears this, she begins to do Kegels right from her first trimester till the day she delivers. And maybe very frequently, maybe every day or maybe every hour it becomes her habit. Impacting her pelvic muscles. So you don't have to trust blindly. You have to educate yourself well and you have to understand why we are doing and what we are doing, right? So I see a lot of messages there. Can you please repeat what Kegels are? So Kegels is nothing but just tightening the pelvic floor and loosening it. Visualize you are holding your pee and letting go of that pee. That is Kegels. Kegels are helpful when you practice it during your initial trimesters. By this I mean during your first trimester and your second trimester. You can do that up till 35 weeks as well, but not very frequently. Not every time or not every day. Also depends on your pelvic floor, how tight it is or if it is loosening, it depends on that as well. So it is really helpful during your first trimester and even in your second trimester. But in the third trimester, you begin to decrease the frequency with which you are practicing the Kegels. Second trimester, you can do it once a day or you can do it once a week. So you can do it once a day or you can do it once a week. So you can do it once a day or you can do it, you can do it once a day, maybe for a few minutes. You just sat down and you are doing it. If it is too loose, if the pelvic floor as per your doctor is too loose, you can take it more tight and not focusing much on loosening. It depends a lot on that way as well. So pelvic floor Kegels, the pelvic floor care, the only thing to practice is Kegels. It is the easiest thing, of course, because you don't need to do anything, you can do it right away as you are seated or if you are sleeping wherever. But that doesn't mean that is the only thing or that is the thing that you need to focus on just. So overtightening can cause pain, difficulty in pushing during the labor, as I already mentioned, because during labor, we need to push and not hold, we need to loosen and not tighten. And also it might cause tearing while pushing if your pelvic floor is too tight. What not to do? Constantly sucking your belly in. So you need to loosen and relax your belly. Doing aggressive Kegels all day. No, you don't need to, it is harming you, it is affecting you negatively. Don't do that. Holding your urine frequently, that is something, of course, we all know we shouldn't do and we should try not to do that. So one thing to keep in mind, ignoring heaviness or leaks. So sometimes when, as I've already mentioned that when you don't have much control on the pelvic floor or it is too loose, you tend to have incontinence. So that is a sign that your pelvic floor is weak. Overdoing squats without awareness is also one thing that we should avoid. So that's why it becomes important to understand the way the pelvic floor is functioning, how it is working different in different trimesters as well. Yes, that's the biggest myth about Kegels that I wanted to bring it out here in front of you all. And how to take care of it during pregnancy, the pelvic floor, there are a lot of different things. Majority I have already covered, but just to bring more things to you is the diaphragmic breathing, the relaxing breathing techniques. The diaphragmic breathing which I already made you practice was that hands by the side, we inhale and expand, feel the muscles expanding like a ring. So visualize your rib area like a rubber ring. As you inhale, it's expanding from the sides, front and behind. When you do that, the diaphragm muscles already moves down and which goes up to the pelvis area. The diaphragm doesn't go down, but the breath and the movement goes down to the pelvis area, impacting that and it gives that amount of strength to that pelvic muscles to tighten and lose it. That's why we focus a lot on breathing as well during pregnancy. And maintaining a good posture throughout is also important. If you are just keeping loose all day long, or you are sitting on a very hard surface throughout the day, maybe you are working.
so the surface is way too hard. These are some things that you need to keep in mind. Keep the surface softened. Maybe if you're sitting on a chair, place a soft cushion underneath so the muscles are at ease. The pelvic floor is relaxed. It is not giving tightness from below. Yeah, so maintain all of this. Maintain a good posture. Of course, relaxing is also important. A lot of things happens when you relax. When you relax, your whole body muscles relaxes. Your nervous system relaxes. When your nervous system relaxes, you release a lot of tension from the muscles, which brings the muscles to its natural state. So that is one thing which is very important. I already covered the last point, which is relaxation. And relaxing your whole body, covers your jaws and everything. Reducing guided, of course, we are here, so we are doing prenatal yoga and massages. So perennial massages is also something that reduces the strain on the pelvic floor muscles. Massages can be with gentle hands, not very much pressure. Also depends on how comfortable you are. Massages are something that actually relaxes and activates the blood circulation. Whenever we have any sort of pain, whenever we have pain and we massage, we activate the blood circulation. So massaging is also one thing that is really effective at this time to release the strain from the pelvic area. If you face any sort of pelvic pubic pains, massaging is something that you can try. You may or may not use oil, that depends on you. That is okay. And relaxation is something very important at this phase. So you need to give yourself some time to sit, breathe and relax. And if you are not yet attending the classes, begin attending the online yoga classes. That is something that educates you more and also brings that practice in you to keep your pelvic floor strengthened. Not just your pelvic floor, we include all the full body mobility there. So that's of great importance for you at this time. And now as we move towards the delivery, after the delivery process, the postpartum care, it becomes very important to have that gain after. So what happens during the delivery, specifically during the natural way we are delivering, it loosens the pelvic floor very much. Because as you push, it is completely loosened at that point in time. So we want to gain that control back over the pelvic muscles. But gently and not with much pressure as the pelvic floor is supporting a lot of organs still there. It's still acting like a hammock for you. The hammock is not yet gone. It is still there. Though it is a little loose, but it is still there and we want to bring that, you know, flexibility back to that muscle. We need to be gentle with it and not go for major core exercises at that time. What happens when we overdo with the core during the postpartum? If you might have heard about mummy tummy or diastasis recti, it creates divergence between your core muscles. So that is something that happens if you give too much pressure on the core during your postpartum, which we don't want. So simple basic practice you can begin with is to start with gentle breathing. The natural way of breathing will help you have that strengthening and loosening. Loosening and flexibility will gradually come back naturally. Yeah, that is the best and the easiest way to begin with your pelvic floor control after your delivery process, which can be done whenever you are ready for it. That is something which is never restricted at any point. Yeah, gentle activation. Avoid heavy weight lifting at the early postpartum. Watch for heaviness or bulging as it's an extreme case, but still there. Yeah, and postnatal yoga, of course, gently guided practice can help you as well. So what are the things that you need to be very careful about and you need to seek help is you need to consult a professional when you are facing persistent leakage. Severe pelvic pain, which is unbearable, which is restricting your daily movement, sitting, standing, lying down, or a little bit of it is fine again. But if it is very severe, if it is uncontrollable, seek professional help. Feeling of something falling down, you know, like it's the same feeling when you are sleeping and you fall, you feel like sometimes you fall down a building. A sudden feeling like that might happen when it is too much pressure on the pelvic floor, it might just break down. So that is the point. If you feel that, that is the point when you consult a professional. Painful recovery, early help is, so whenever there is a very painful recovery after the delivery, it is very painful. You consult a doctor and when you take help early, you take steps towards a faster recovery at that point. So that's how it works. And now we take this time to sum up of all the things that I have talked about and pelvic floor is not just about tightening. We definitely understood that it is not just about tightening. It is about training it, training it with awareness, not just tightening, but preparing for loosening as well. It supports you through pregnancy and birth and even beyond that. Breath is your best tool during your pregnancy, during your delivery and after your delivery as well to recover and have that control over that area. Strength plus relaxation is equals to balance. It's not just the physical practice guys. It's also with the relaxation. How well are you able to relax your body? How well are you able to relax your muscles? It should be a balance between the both and not just the relaxation. You also need to use those muscles to train them to strengthen. That's why the classes that we have live is also of much importance. So care now for a smooth recovery later. If you have that control over it now, it becomes much easier for you to recover later. So these are the key points that I would like to sum up with that pelvic floor is as I have been taking this from the beginning like a hammock. The more you keep it loose, the more it will sink down, the more you keep it tight, it might break off. So you need to keep it at a flexible level, at a controlled level where you are able to tighten it at the point you want. You are able to loosen it at the point you want. So that's how I would like to sum up and I hope I didn't overwhelm you with all the information about all of it. And now I can go with some what is perennial massage. So the massage over the pelvic area with the hands softly is can be termed as perennial massage. Also help in postnatal yoga. Yes, we do have postnatal yoga Pragati ji and your care manager can guide you maybe after your delivery, you can inquire right now also. How does jaw loosening helps? Okay. So what happens is when you keep your body tight, when you are tightening, it is not just tightening your jaws, it is tightening your whole body, it is giving signal, the nervous system is giving signal to the whole body to tighten. Suppose, somewhere you are, there's some scary thing coming from around. Will you just do this? Is it your specific muscles that is tightening? No, your whole body somewhere is. Right? So that's how when you are tightening or when you are loosening, it is mostly in your overall body muscles. So loosening the jaws signals your body to relax, signals your muscles to relax and loosen. That's how jaw loosening helps you in relaxing the pelvic floor. There is one breathing which is the horse breathing which we do in our sessions in which we relax our jaws which in turn helps to relax the pelvic floor. Yeah, so that's how it is connected. How birthing ball helps pelvic floor? Birthing ball, as I mentioned that whenever we are seated on a hard surface, you're giving too much pressure on it. Birthing ball is a softer surface, right? So that's how it is helpful and also I'm not a birthing ball expert. So I won't go deep into it but a basic knowledge that I have about the surface that I just mentioned. Maybe you can ask your care manager to share more on it with you. I'll just scroll up there.
Divya ji, I mentioned in the first trimester we want it to be a little on the tighter end so that it is not falling way too fast with the weight, increasing weight. That time we wanted to hold up till you deliver or when you reach your third trimester. We need to keep it tight and that's why we take the practices as for it that it is not to lose and also that with the weight of the baby it is sinking down. We don't want to sink it down way too fast in the early weeks of the pregnancy. So that's how it is important to keep it tight as well. And to keep it tight whenever we are doing sports, it's more of dynamic. It's more of holding when we move towards the third trimester, which we'll lose in. So that's how it is helping in the first and second trimester. No, so the pain someone in the name, can kegels be done by Xorbitz Problem Smothers? No, that's a really good thing that you brought up. Thank you. This is something that not everyone should do unless you take it from, you know, personalize. If you have any problems or any specific restrictions with the movements, please take a personal guidance regarding it. Practice this only if you are general and without any complications regarding this. I think I mentioned what is perineal massage. Pregnancy these days, I feel a sharp pelvic pain at night. While sleeping and also doing exercise like cat and cow, what should I do? Pranjal ji, so a lot of sharp pelvic pain before sleep, what did you ask? While sleeping. So what you can do is before sleeping, you can go with a little bit of movement, something like simple standing hip rotation. What happens when you rotate your hips, it activates the blood circulation. So what happens when we are sleeping sometimes, it is remaining in a standing posture for a longer duration, which reduces your blood supply, because of which there are certain sort of pains. So before sleeping, a gentle movement, a little bit of movement can help you to keep your blood flow a lot more active. That will help you ease your pain. That is something that you can add before sleeping. Little bit of pelvic movements. It can be pelvic tilts, it can be hip rotations that can help you. And during exercises like cat and cow, what should I do? Take it as per your intensity, Pranjal ji. And try the massages. It shall also help. Core tightening and pelvic floor movement after giving birth via C-section. Anchal ji, core tightening and pelvic floor movements after C-section. We generally, we comment after 3 to 6 months, but of course, depends on your doctor's advice. Practice session of pelvic floor in IMOMS. I don't know what session are you talking about Gauri ji, so I am not very much aware of what that is. I have pain in the pelvic region when I start working. You can try massaging before working, Akriti ji. Can you tell something specific about pelvic floor exercises for 3rd trimesters? Nishita ji, a lot of them are there. It can be holding malas, standing side lunges, elevated lunges. So these are the exercises that help in 3rd trimesters. Kandasana, Dharyasana, these are some things. And if you do the labor prep yoga, you will already have a good, majorly a very good idea about what we do there. I worry that cervix should not open too much too early. Can pelvic floor exercises cause too much opening of cervix before time? No, Samina ji. So if it is a well-guided under a professional, it is not at all a risk of, it doesn't bring a lot of, it doesn't bring a risk of opening of the cervix before time because we are taking the practice as per the trimesters. As I already mentioned, a good care of it is given during the practice. So that is not a risk. But of course, it depends on person to person. And we take a good care of it. But if you are with certain complications, it can go that way. But if not, it is generally not at all that way. Does baby position like upyara or routine change how my pelvis floor behaves and can targeted movements help rotation? Yes, I would say the first question, oh, the question went ahead. Changes how my pelvic floor behaves. Not how specifically your pelvic floor behaves when the baby is in what position, but... Oh, is someone sharing screen? Okay. But yes, targeted position, what happens is, when we are movements, when we are taking some movements, we are creating more space in which we give more space for the baby to move. That's how it can help you. And I think that is the last question I need to take for today as we are here. So I hope this workshop was helpful for you. Thank you so much for joining in. Thank you so much for joining in. And I hope I was able to help you a little on it and educated you a little on it. Please, Hans. Okay, guys. So the questions that you have can be now carried forward to your care manager. From there, she can guide you further. I'm so sorry. It was a very informative session. Thank you so much, everyone. I'm glad that I was able to help you a little on it. Have a happy pregnancy ahead. Take care. Enjoy your Sunday. Thank you, everyone. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Thank you.
