We discussed last week on fundamental basics of content strategy 2.0. So, from culture to entertainment and do not worry, do not worry, you do not need anything, do not worry, that habit need to be updated now. So, quick note, where we started 8 months ago, we shifted from culture based to entertainment first thinking. The insight, great stories are great anywhere in the world. Culture is not the creative core, it is the distribution wrapper, which we discussed last time. What is the meaning of this? It is in the core story and the culture is the marketing tool by which our time expands. Like example, Samri is a great story, Rajasthani is also a great story, Gujarati is also a great story, anywhere whatever we will place that story. Now we used to do it with dubbing, tomorrow we can do it with the productization of culture based on our insights. So, we understood this on a fundamental level in the conversation of last week. Like name in toothpaste, which we discussed with example, it is a market wrapper that makes the story relatable. For example, someone wants a toothpaste with salt, someone wants a toothpaste with neem, someone wants colorful, someone wants to do something with teeth, but at the end of the day it is a toothpaste. So, same way culture is a wrapper and the real story core is the actual entertainment people want to consume. Validated content that works in one culture succeeds when dubbed into others. Now, the most important fundamental thing is that in the last meeting, we were talking about a lot of formats because the discussion went on like that, but when you question yourself So, the fundamental question for stage is, like example, if a user opens his phone at 9 in the evening and he has 45 minutes, then why do they open stage? Fundamentally, we build a user case and ask ourselves a question. So, there are four very important questions whose answers he gets, he opens his app and comes there and spends time. The fundamental questions we are talking about. So, either a new show has come and its new episode has come, so it must have a habit, then it will open your app. Everyone is talking about this or there is such a huge content that everyone around it is talking about it, so it has been created as a form. Or there is always something good, like we are talking about Netflix, that on this platform I will get something good because there is variety on it. Or I can't get this anywhere else, meaning there is exclusivity. So, at least this is my thought, you can add yourself to this, but fundamentally what I have understood is that if he gets anything around his habit, homo, variety and exclusivity, then there are chances that he will open your app, come to your app and spend time on your app. So, this is like fundamental first principle question that is giving an answer that why somebody will come to your app. What is the format? What is the content? These are all branches beyond that. Fundamentals are like why somebody is going to open the app. So, this is at least my version, we can double down on this and talk about more. So, the second important thing is what is the North star metric? Frequency, active days per month we have to increase. How often do they come back? And depth, watch time and completion date, when they come, how much do they consume? These are very fundamental basic questions. Again, we will talk about the format later. First, what is the meaning of frequency and depth and how do we see them? So, again target like example, if every monthly active user opens page 12 to 15 times per month, means 3 to 4 times per week. We can change this based on our expectations and what we want. We can change the whole strategy according to that. We can take this as an example. If the target of every session is 25 minutes. If he opens our app, he will see 25 minutes. So, means 300 to 375 minutes per user per month we are targeting for once. How much time the user spends, how many sessions, how many active days, how much time. So, user who opens 4x time and this is also a basic metric, their churn rate reduces and users who open once. So, the more they open, the churn rate will reduce according to our fundamental business. Okay. Again, while doing this, it became interesting, when you did everything, I did not add everything in this, Snowflake, Snowflake. Now, we will give the same strategy with our historical data and there we will say that bro, my active users are this, I have this subsystem. First, find out what is my matter historically. Now, if I have to achieve this, then what all I have to do. So, he will cut all the slices and give. This is the base level, which is for brainstorming. Just to kick start more thoughts. Okay. Now, how to think about. Fundamentally, again, we have to understand what is the architect of content and what is the purpose of every format and then how do we see that format in business. Okay. So, for example, he has broken it into 4 layers. One is layer 4, that is event, come to stage. I will explain it further. Layer 3 is FOMO, everyone talking about this, the 4 that we have discussed. Layer 1 is the foundation, without habit nothing else matters. Layer 1 is the most important, if you are not able to build that habit on the stage. So, these layers are also of no use. For that, it is very important that layer 1 is solid. Layer 4 brings user in and layer 3 keep buzz alive and layer 2 ensure breath. So, fundamentally every layer has different purpose in the user's life. User is same. One layer brings the user, second layer gives depth to the user and third layer builds the user's habit. So, user is same. So, it is important to understand that in the user's life, we have to deliver it according to every layer. Okay. Now, let's come to layer 1, that is the habit engine. So, now according to my research or my understanding, long series, episodic content should get 60% of our investment. That is the habit engine. The priority, the foundation of everything. Okay. Why long series? Daily plus weekly appointment, user know my show drops at 7pm. Okay. Character attachment, after 10 episodes character feels like family, if they make us good in long series. Low decision cost, user doesn't choose, they just come. Sorry continue, because you have hooked them. Cliffhanger mechanism, each episode ends with a reason to return. And community shared pace means people discuss together. People talk about it when it comes because you have created such a big impact on the community. Okay. So, this was Rocky's mandate. Character first storytelling is mandatory. Just a nudge in between. Like long series are character first. Every long series pitch start with who is the protagonist, what's their want and why will audience root for this episode, what's the word that can sustain long storytelling, what's the cliffhanger archetype. He gave some examples of long series. Now, something for everyone, that is 20% of investment, layer 2. Variety platter. Why it matters? If users see stage as the daily soap app, you lose premium user and limit your time. So, variety creates platform perception. There is always something new. So, this is like one more thought to validate or develop after the discussion. Part of layer 2 with layer 3 potential. Non-fiction is serious play. Why non-fiction matters now? In AI world, real human story become premium. Production cost is equal to 30 to 50% of scripted content. Culturally specific without dubbing issues. Proven retention globally. Netflix most works are open. Non-fiction format for stage. True crime. Social currency and reactivation. Layer 3 FOMO engine. The psychology when 3 friends are watching something and the 4th is not.
The fourth person subscribes. No ad can replicate this. FOMO is the most powerful organic acquisition tool Stage biggest gap Acquisition Magnet Feature films don't drive retention. They drive awareness and trials. If you have 2-3 Tentpole films every year, then your acquisition is sold. You have to focus on habit building, FOMO driven IPs. You don't have to make 12 films. You have to make Tentpole IPs. You have to make big content. You have to make amazing offbeat content. Which will drive your acquisition. You have to go acquisition first thinking. When you are thinking about these kind of things. Every content, every feature, every title is solving a different purpose for the platform. Feature films don't drive retention. They drive awareness and trials. Use a marketing event, not a content strategy. Pull 3 market budget into 1 massive production. Always pair with long series recommendations. Start a LED special music event. Every month these 6 slots must be filled. You have to balance genres. Crime, thriller, long series, etc. We are talking about thought building. You have to think in a mood. Not format. We must serve every mood. Every mood means genre, variety, FOMO, etc. Same user wants to watch comedy, crime, long series, micro drama. User's psyche depends on mood. Are we able to serve according to their mood or not? This has to be one more important center point when we are developing our content strategy. Next, different users need different content. For example, hooked users. They are following 2-3 long series, open 4-5 per week. Need continuity. Never let their show end without a replacement. For example, after Mahapunja Janam, we brought Videshi Bahut. Ideally, it should come before 2-3 episodes. If we start creating hooks in those episodes, they can still have that momentum going on. If we see the series ending before 5-6 episodes, they need continuity. Because they are hooked on your platform. Browsers who are open 102 per week, watch what looks interesting. They need variety. Browsers who are open 112 per week, watch what looks interesting. They need variety. Film, non-fiction, micro drama. Convert them by getting them to start a long series. Dormant users. They are subscribed but barely open. Need a reason to come back. Reality show got buzzed. Tank pole film came. New season came. Every user has a different need on the platform. Dormant users need something else. How will they get it? Browsers who come to browse, will get it in a different way. Those who come daily, will get it in a different way. Now there is one more slice. User's psyche. User's behavior on the platform. That becomes very important in our release plan. We can't release if we are ready. For whom are we releasing? What will be our maximum output? For example, we know there is a big tank pole content. Acquisition will be live. But Nate can activate dormant users. Because it is such a dangerous content. The strategy should be, Nate should be now targeting to every user who was not opening the app. Because it is exciting everyone right now. So every content is designed in a way, what outcome do we want to get out of it. So psyche, mood, behavior, variety. These are like more wider way of thinking in content strategy. When we are developing overall content strategy for us. Then new users just subscribe on exploring. So they need immediate value. So they watch three things in first seven days retention. Let's say 60%. Whatever we talk about our aha moment or habit moment. At least this is like my recommendation after researching a lot. Every day has a reason to open stage. Like we are putting one content in a week. Or we also have 3-4 content in a month. Ideally every day there should be something new coming on stage. Why? Because someone is building a habit. Someone is giving variety. Someone is creating forms. For example, There has to be a combination of a lot of things. So then every user. Like we used to say. Not everyone will like this. But if we give a lot to everyone. Then they will like something or the other. Someone will like variety. Someone will like because of habit. Someone will like something. So this is how then we can engage more our users. The most dangerous moment when a long series ends. Like this was our learning. Which we should do next time. Overlap scheduling never leave a gap. Which we did somewhere. So never end two series in a same month. Long series. New long series starts two weeks before. Existing one end. Last episode of ending series. Promote the next series. Push notification within 24 hours. Loved show. Whatever. This is the one IP. We have talked about it. The productization of culture. What format service funnel stage. Awareness. Reality show. It will tell everything. What can be done for retention. What can be done for trials. Confusion. We do long series. For example. Binge watch behavior is different. How much user wants to commit. I know. I am committing for 5 episodes. His psyche is different. I will do for 26. His psyche is different. I take my decision on that. That is coming out. From user first principle model. We want or not. In user's life. There are behaviors. In user's life. There are patterns. In user's mental model. These things are placed. When he wants. In which mood. In which variety. In which genre. This is the summary now. Stage is a habit first entertainment platform. Build daily viewing habit. Create social buzz. Ensure breadth. Through variety. And drive acquisition. Through tent pole events. Culture is our distribution super power. One great story. Productizing into every single. Every regional market. Through AI enabled localization. Every subscriber open stage. 3 to 4 times a week. Because they are always a reason to come back. Let's build this together. Format is our engine. Culture is our distribution. Story is our song. This is what I was able to. Articulate in my head. After that discussion. Research on internet. About behaviors. About psyche. About how we can think about things. Budget. How much money we have. There is no limit. I have to think like this. I have to think for user. What will user get. How user will get best value delivery. I have to think about that. According to that. 2 to 3 final insights. If I want to articulate. 1. According to first principle. User opens app for what reasons. 2. When he opens. Is he getting value. 3. What is the value.
So these are some articulation of these captions. So this is at least where we are. So we can start doubling down, start talking more on formats and everything. Non-fiction is coming out to be a very, very important format which can be a game-changer for us. And the market that we are serving, with that cultural identity, no one has done much in non-fiction yet. And there is a lot of potential there to create IPs like this. One IP can be served to all cultures. And it can be unlocked for a long time in a very healthy way. Even here, we are thinking of productization of culture. When I was thinking more on non-fiction as a category, I got a lot of ideas. By default, we are in a position where we can create IPs which can cut across all cultures. And one IP can create form of curiosity, competition for every culture people. It's like India-Pakistan rivalry, in a very healthy way. Like for example, if you are trying to teach a Gujarati a Haryanvi, a Haryanvi and a Gujarati will watch it. Like you are doing a competition for food, dishes. You told a Gujarati to make roti on a Haryanvi stove. Something, something. So when I was talking about it, as the thought was being built, I was able to come up with amazing ideas on non-fiction category, which we can double down and talk about. I have a different presentation on it, which we will talk about later. But this is the base understanding after last discussion. Got it. Should we do some structural discussion? Yes. What are the questions to ask? Maybe that is the first thing. I mean, maybe that is one of the directions we can go. Like, you can structure it in such a way that at the end of the day, what is your objective? What do you want to solve? So, just from your thoughts, a question that was coming to my mind, that even the first question can be, that we, our total active users, just framing into a direction also, that we have to bring our total active users back to the maximum time app. So we are solving retention. And when they come, they create frequency and they create depth. So that can be like the umbrella thought. And then we can start cutting into it, to serve the format, the joiner, and whatever comes into it. At least at my personal level, I have two thoughts. Because at the end of the day, content is the retention driver also, and content is the acquisition driver also. And at least my personal insight is that, at least what I have learned in the last 5-6 years, plus my research also says that we should treat both separately also. That the acquisition driver's method is different, and the retention driver's method is different. At least this is my understanding also. And I think this happens on every platform also. That there are some 10th pole content which drives the acquisition, and then you give them a lot of content to serve those acquisitions. So what we even talk about, that SCAM 1992 was a game changer for Sony League, Mirjapur game changer for Prime, Sacred game and then a couple of other content for Netflix. And from there, their acquisition was driven first. That was like the biggest hit they gave, and suddenly their entire acquisition burst from there. And then they started serving more content to that user also, plus gradually they started making 10th pole, 1, 1, 2, 2, 1, 1, 2, 2 IPs. So even in our thinking now, we see every content from the same perspective, we have to give 50 lakhs as an example. So that thinking will also change. I want to make a 10th pole. Till now we used to think that 10th pole can be made, but believe me, there is a lot behind making that 10th pole. Like very recent example is Nate. Personally, I was very sure, and I convinced other people also in the team on that thought, that it's a 10th pole. They already know that it's a 10th pole. It's not like you know it only when it's made. So we can put those insights, those learnings, those frameworks that can make that content 10th pole even before release. Because you have to put it. There will be a lot of magic in the process. What we don't know will also work. But there is a psyche, there is a framework that we put in to make a content 10th pole. If we don't put it, at least I feel that we are slowly building that knowledge. If we put that framework in a frame, then we know that if 10 things are in a content, then that content becomes a 10th pole. If not, then we can make it. We can also make that frame. So, at least the questions you are asking in the structure, I feel that 1. Solving retention for our existing user base. 2. Acquiring new user base. And for them, how we are developing the whole strategy. At least, just a framework trying to create. How does this compare with what we did last time? Last time also, the way we thought about it was that there are these many personas. Let's make some strategy for everyone. If matchmaking is good with persona, then acquisition and retention will be solved. Yes. Let's go. Still, I feel that according to that time, it was an amazing strategy. Because of which we are here today. But somewhere in that, we were very much focused. The central approach was that everyone should get everything. But the logics behind it were very deep. And as much as we are aware today, plus it was experimental. We had to learn a lot. Let's do long switch and see what happens. Let's do micro drama and see what happens. So, I think the change is that today we are in a better position to double down and with confidence we can take some big decisions. And the mindset of budget allocation has changed. Earlier, the market was 1.7 lakhs. For example, make 12 films in every market. So, the allocation of budget will change now. The allocation of formats will change now. Earlier, we used to think about every culture. Now, we will think about the stage. So, such things are changing in the framework. Now, I will make one framework, but it will be very strong. Earlier, I was making four frameworks. So, such frameworks, I think, optimization of our budget can be the last thing, but utilization of budget in a better way can be discussed again. So, if the format is above the culture, then we allocate budget on formats. On formats. And the understanding of the format is also important. What is the kind of outcome it creates for us? It creates for us. Then we have to decide how much percentage we have to allocate and how much percentage outcome is coming from it. I think it's a good umbrella for us to start with. Let's write the questions and answer them. You will do it, your writing is good. My writing is a bit bad. Do it, your writing is good. Align on what we discussed till now. You also share your thoughts. See, I am here to facilitate and moderate. You have to make the strategy.
I have a question which is bothering me a little bit. You called culture a rapper. And then your second sentence was, culture is a superpower for us. You had another statement in this. As we discussed last time, I don't see culture as a rapper. I see culture as content. For example, you are talking about Samadhi, you are talking about Nati. The reflection of culture is in the build-up of that character. When the character is built, the story is built. If I remove culture from Nati or Samadhi, then people have a universal emotion that touches them. But its uniqueness, its offbeat, which we use the word again and again, offbeat, it is the same culture. So, I personally feel that it is not a rapper. Because what is the job of a rapper? A rapper just covers, the core is inside that, and you remove the rapper with time. Okay? So, I feel that the stage, like it is said that there is Mehrangarh, you make a water body around Mehrangarh, so that no one can reach there. So, the difference between Netflix and us is that that is our mode. It makes our uniqueness. Why do we see our characters differently? Like the content of TVF, there is a strong culture in its characters, and it makes them unique. 100%. So, that sentence is bothering me a lot. I will tell you later, the way to understand it. First of all, we should not disrespect a rapper. It is important to understand this first. I know, because a rapper is as important as a story. First of all. A rapper does not mean that he is less important and she is more important. It is equal. First of all. Take it like this. Story and rapper both are... Story and the culture. What was happening here now, was story and culture. What we used to do now. Now we are saying that story is equal to culture, but these two are different. We separated the story and the culture. But until these two are not there, this material will not be sold. First understand this. The feeling of a rapper is that we are disrespecting the culture. That is the core. That is what we are talking about. That is the super power. But what we are trying to say, it did not work because he is from Rajasthan. Sirav. You are comparing it with dialect. No, not with dialect. The core emotion of this content, if this core emotion was anywhere in the world, we are talking about this. She was from Rajasthan, that is why she came to Rajasthan. You give an example. There is no such story. Okay. Now if I imply this tradition in the south, then it is not relatable there. It is not believable. 100%. That is why we will create a score in it. What has changed? What we talked about. It is possible that Kantara goes to one place and Kantara is like another Partha. The emotion is like Kantara, but Partha has changed. One more thing. Our stories have been in the northern area. If our stories, if they relate to the south, to the cultural people there, then we feel that there is a universal emotion of that level. I will give you an example. Thappad. Yes. Everyone knows the story of this film. Yes. Thappad is a universal emotion. Yes. Of the whole country. Yes. Whether it is south, whether it is north, whether it is east or west. This film, its story is the core. What we are talking about. The rapper of this culture is this Thappad, which is this emotion. It is relevant for everyone here. It happens in everyone's house. So what Renu is worried about is that we call culture a rapper and we are diluting its importance. But what I was trying to tell her is that now culture and story were together and now culture and story are equal. It means that the story is very important. Its core is very important. And if it comes from that culture, then it will come from the culture. Otherwise, it does not come. As an example, let's take an example. Sanki Aasik. We made a content. You can make Sanki Aasik in Haryana, you can make it in Rajasthan, in Bhojpuri. So there will be a few stories that you will make at the core level and it will be set. And there will be a few stories that are coming out of that culture. But in that too, the core of the story is more important. And then, in case, or that story will be relevant for everyone anyway, if it is not, then the productization of culture will be useful and it will tell us that if you change this, then it will be more relevant for that culture. I am also a little aligned with the questions. What is Sukandar? Questions or answers? Questions. Answer is this. Every culture gives birth to different stories. Like in Rajasthan, there is this context, that's why we were able to make Savari. I think emotions, they touch more at the universal level. That story may be of anywhere, it may be of this particular tribal area or it may be of Delhi. Every place has its own culture. But it is a culture, it creates conflict, and that conflict creates a story. And then, with that conflict, story and character, as a human, we touch. So, sometimes, a unique story attracts us a lot, and sometimes, a universal story attracts us again. They are North and South. Like, Ayushman Khurrana will make a film, which will be like, this is a story in crores. Let's suppose this. Because it is different. Not an example. Not Savari. Like that story, Yes. Like Sunny Deol. Sunny Deol's films. They used to be like, he went to the city from the village, there was a don there, his father did that. What is important is, Pakistan's emotions are based on that. Everything is the same. Yes, that has become our emotion. That is our emotion, of the whole country. Animal, again, is based on father-son relationship. So, this thing, if we look at culture at the surface level, it will become a wrapper. But if we look at the soul level, which we are trying to understand, in our research also, culture gives birth to a lot of culture stories. This also becomes true. That is absolutely right. But, It adds value to the soul. 100 percent. And I agree with that. The same, it is not changing, even now. Yes. For example, think like, someone made Sultan, for Iqbal. He doesn't understand how it was made. He doesn't go for that. He caught an emotion and a culture. Like, in Haryana, there is such an emotional culture. Dangal, or Kantara, or, what I am trying to say, that is still not changing, the way stories are born. So, now, culture used to be a center. Now, it is one of the elements in the birth of that story. Yes. When we discuss a story, it comes from the culture, a lot of times. Because, there is uniqueness in it. And when we think with universal emotions, it comes in a different way. Both are important, and we will be doing both. One thing to add, with your analysis, we conducted a team work in Patna, and two of our films, Jhola Shah, and Sabri, people watched it. And there are different reasons on why people have watched Jhola Shah, and why people have watched Sabri. Jhola Shah, the reasons given, that Bhojpuri's village is visible, the actor is known, the story is from us, our user, was Jhola Shah himself, the doctor, who came for the interview. He was himself. Sabri, they may have seen it dubbed, everyone saw Sabri in one go, but that was not, even if it was dubbed in Bhojpuri, people were always like, it is a story of Rajasthan, it is Rajasthan's story, but it intrigues me. In doing, there is only one, that, a little doubt, I feel, in doing universalization, it feels like, there are many behavioral aspects. For instance, Bhojpuri people watching, South Films, how will you say that? Is it universal, or is it interest in culture? Bhojpuri people watching, and loving Sabri, Patna being the highest number, of viewers in that, is it universal, or is it cultural in this? The fact that, Bollywood's graph, has started going down, and regional cinema, is more diverse, is it universal?
or is it interest in culture? Those things are, I mean, urge would be to not simplify just because you want to come to a strategy. And culture representation from small signs and symbols is so important. In Punjabi. In Punjabi. In Punjabi. In Punjabi. So, there are so many different things and how do we make all these complications come into the universal world and not lie to ourselves. So, just an example, just adding to what Nishita is saying, that there are many elements of culture which we are talking about. Even today, there is a lot of effort put in by the director or the writer or even the set design. Let's take an example of Gangs of Wasseypur. It's a heavily culturally rooted film. So, they have tried to show that culture with the same level of authenticity. But the emotion of entertainment is very high. So, even today, when a story is born, that story will be told with the same level of authenticity. Otherwise, that story will neither be relevant for that place nor will it be relevant for anyone else. People still want to know what is the authenticity of that story. So, that is not changing now also. Representation. That's why I said that the statement I got was that content is the core and culture is the wrapper. And then we said that culture is the superpower. So, that's why both the thoughts were conflicting. I think we need to reframe the language a little. Let's reframe it a little. It wasn't said like this. I think all the points that we have heard so far are all right. And that's why this is an entire spectrum at least. Again, I am also just sharing my opinion. Please don't rate it as any dictum. You are the experts. I am not. So, I think this framing that story is not equal to cultural wrapper is not right. Obviously, when a story is born, it will be born in a certain context. And we cannot take the cultural context out of the birth of the story. Right. I think that was never the debate. Right. And rather the point that we tried to uncover was that there is a core of every film which is to do with filmmaking. Right. Which is basically about how are you designing the characters? How is the plot unfolding? Right. What is the production value? That is a part of writing. That is a part of the story. Right. Now, Sabri's story can be said in a very bad way. That thing is not intertwined with the cultural context. That is an abstract feature of any content. So, I think the visualisation of the wrapper is that culture is just a wrapper. It is not like that. I think when we understand it in a little context, the point that we uncovered was that the core is filmmaking. And there are many aspects of filmmaking. We will not talk about it point by point. So, to put it in context, it is called filmmaking. Right. Now, a good story, for example, Sabri. Antara. The Heart. Probably it is not a good story. I am just taking examples. It has also been done in China. So, good filmmaking, which means that the good core, is something that makes the content work. Whereas, just the cultural wrapper may not make the content work. Both are intertwined. There are no two doubts about it. Right. Hence, the articulation, and we can change that articulation. Hence, the articulation that came about was that the cultural context is the wrapper. For a content to work, the necessary condition is not the cultural context. It is not a necessary condition. The necessary condition is that the core of filmmaking should be good. That's right. This is a paraphrasing. This is a footnote. But, I think we keep the wrong things in the wrong context, understand it in the wrong way, and still talk about it. So, now, you need to punish me for this. Just adding, because my point is clear. What does the wrapper mean? It is necessary to understand. Now, the story will be made as it is. It will be made in the same way. Now, it is best. What did we learn? That story was amazing. It was made with authenticity. The elements of its culture were very authentic. If it was shot in Rajasthan, it was shot in Rajasthan. So, the wrapper of that culture was still Rajasthan. When we used dubbing, we used the wrapper of the culture in Haryana, it went to Haryana. Then, we used the wrapper of Bhojpuri, it went to Bhojpuri. Then, we used the wrapper, but the core of the story, the authenticity of the story is still not changing. I don't think dubbing is a wrapper. So, what am I trying to say? I think the meaning of wrapper is a problem with the articulation or the words. What did the wrapper mean here? Opening the pan. If a content fits in any culture, then the wrapper of the culture, which we talked about that day, then it opens the pan for us. For example, if Sauri was in Hindi, then it would be relevant for the whole country. We are not doing that now. We have a conscious goal till date. If Sauri was made in Hindi, with the authenticity of everything, the way it is worn, or even the way it is bastardized, if it was made in that way, then every Indian would have seen that film today. We sell it as it is of Rajasthan, it is of Haryana, it is of Bhojpuri, because that is the unique selling point, at least we have, on which we are still playing out. If it was made in Hindi, then also it would have been sold as it is, because the core of the story is not changing. Bollywood films, the films of Ayushman Khurana, or let's take, or the films of Gangs of Wasseypur, or some content that is very, like the one that came, Kiran Rao, Lapta Ladies, all these stories are coming out of culture. There are many examples, but if it was in Hindi, then it became relevant to everyone. So instead of Hindi, we said in the presentation, that every user deserves entertainment in their own culture, in which they are. So we added a layer of culture, and made the content more personalized, and customized for them, so that they feel more authentic, and feel more relevant, when they see the content. So that is at least my, more understanding of this. And any story is universal, when it is seen, that the story has been told, with all the honesty of the region, whether it is Kantara, or it is Wasseypur, or it is Samri. No. Wasseypur, people of Maharashtra have also seen, that Maharashtra's culture, is completely different from Bihar's culture. Okay. I feel that, when we talk about this, that a universal, now we are having another discussion, that we have a universal, this content, when we choose a story, it should fit everywhere, that will dilute the story, to a great extent. Honestly, when we talk about a region's story,
I'm just saying that we will make it in the format itself. If you're talking about the court, I'm not talking about that. I'm just saying that if a story, like I'm telling you about the story of Laundry Dancer, so that Laundry Dancer is still in UP and Bihar, right? And only when she's there, will she be authentic. She will do well in Rajasthan. She will do well in Haryana. Absolutely. Because she has soaked up the whole root, the whole culture of it. 100%. But if I sit down to make it universal, that I'll take a little character from here and a little from there, then it won't work. So whether it's Vaisaipur, or Kantara, or whoever it is. We don't know what was going on in Kantara's social media in the south. The people there can tell you better. But we considered it to be true. Because the way she focused on small, small rituals and things, the way she kept an eye on everything, she connected the audience. Her honesty connected. So I feel that even now, while choosing the story, we have to first look at where the story is from and it doesn't get diluted. Then the culture will automatically be aligned. I think it's a learning for me also. I think it's a big confusion. Because we are doing a lot of parallel. So I think she's saying right here. Even, like I came to her and told her two or three times, that you bring a Haryana user, bring a character from Rajasthan. I think that is not the right way to think about the story. What is the core of the story? What is the core of the story that fits in the story? And if there is a demand in that story, then it can come, otherwise it can't come. You don't have to force it, right? So my thought has developed in this. When we think of content, of course, we will think of everything with core, with authenticity. And we will try to deliver that first, OK? At least, I'll be just, I'm thinking wrong, just. I'm getting it in my head while discussing. There can be stories that have a lot of authenticity from that culture or from that core. We will make that. There can be a decision that we will make on some universal topics only. And there can be a discussion that we will mix the characters and make it. That's the last thing. It's just a thought. But the core is not changing. Authenticity is not changing. The story, the way it deserves to be told, if that changes, then I think that story won't work. So I think we are, I'm aligned on that. There should be justice with that. But then, just giving you an example, that when a Haryanvi police comes in a story, then that story becomes very relevant for Haryanvi, OK? When there is a mix of those two cultures, then the story becomes universal. And we are seeing that now, there are a lot of experiments. In OTT also, when a Hathiram goes to Nagaland and solves the story, then that story is being solved for Nagaland as well, and it becomes relevant for everyone. So then, at least this is what I was trying to highlight, that a story, the core is not being changed. That Hathiram is still solving the Nagaland problem. But he is still solving it as Hathiram. When he talks to Nimrat Kaur, he talks with the same attitude, that he is a Haryanvi, and he will talk with the same attitude. So what I am, so now that character's demand is to be Haryanvi. But Nagaland has a demand to show the visuals in Nagaland's way. And this is how you merge, open up the time. So that will come organically. It will come organically. Hathiram's second season, the story you pitched to me, that three kids have gone to Bombay. Three kids can go from anywhere, right? Three people are struggling in Bombay. Three went to become artists. One went to struggle in Haryana, one went to do it in Rajasthan, one went to do it in Bihar. If it comes organically in the story, then we will do it. If it doesn't come, then we won't do it. Those are the conscious creative goals, right? How do you optimize the business? How do you take business goals? How do you maximize things with one content? All that is business. This is what the work of humans is left after that. At least this is my understanding. In Kantara, the dubbing is done very smartly. For example, the hero was given Mumbai's dubbing. He was given South's dubbing. I mean, this is how they combined it. In Bollywood films today, how does Spider-Man get dubbed there? It's fun, right? Because when he is dubbed in a cultural context, Spider-Man too. That's when they enjoy it. In Haryana, till the time... I have started following a lot of Haryana's commentary on IPL. They don't call the umpire an umpire. They have taken a conscious call that Tau didn't give an out. It's fun, right? Tau didn't give an out. Tau doesn't understand. It's so much fun to hear Tau again and again. So, you have to make it contextual. So, that rapper is this rapper about him. When you distribute one thing... I don't even enjoy listening to Hindi on him. Because it's so much fun. They talk about the next level in the commentary. Listen to the Bhojpuri one. It's the next level. And then look at the viral content on the internet. Leave the like-vibes. 5-5 lakh shares on a single reel. 5-5 lakh shares. Because you have made him a rapper of distribution culture. The content was still the same. Chakka is still the same. But in Hindi, it's Chakka Mara. And he has put a lot of effort in it. It changes a lot. So, I think... And it's possible that it's not very creative. We'll keep experimenting. We'll keep learning. We'll fail a couple of times. But we will learn in that process. But we'll have to make a structure, a structure somewhere. Is there any clarity now? Yeah, in some way. Definitely, there is clarity. And whether it's a tadpole or whatever, the culture does increase its distribution. Whether it's a dubbing of one culture or another culture, we have opened up the audience's time. But what I can conclude is that when you put culture in it, so what comes is an emotion. When Harsh was saying that there is neem in tadpole, neem is an emotion that we have been seeing for a long time. In our homes, people have told us that if you do it with neem, this will happen, that will happen. So, it's a culture's emotion that we have been listening to for the last 100 years. And what does that emotion do? It helps in buying. It builds attachment. Is your audio recording on? Yes, it's recording. And then... How does it stop? Sorry, let me check. The meeting stops automatically in my laptop for some reason. I don't know why. Sorry, continue. I was just... During research, it seems like culture gives an emotional connection to the story. Sometimes, it gives rise to conflict in the story. It can depend on the layer. If you're talking about IPL, and you're doing it normally in Hindi, the emotion will be different. If you do it in Haryanvi, the emotion will be different. And definitely, the emotion helps in selling it. Thank you. There's a reflection. This is a conjecture. More than anything else. But it's very close to reality. Why do we call a cultural rapper a distribution label? Because it feels like there's a place in the mental model of a user. When he tells you that he wants to watch some Haryanvi today. Or he wants to watch some Bhojpuri today. And in that place...
We can qualify. I understand. So it applies like a decision maker. So that meme example, when you go to the shop, you have a line of 5 toothpastes. But because that decision maker is in my mental model, which I have been made by showing ads, FMCG has put a lot of effort to build that record. So at that point, I was able to choose one out of those 5. So cultural context also plays a role in this. And hence, it was the distribution lever also. There is no shortage of content. There is more than one can bite and chew and digest today. It's an era of abundance. We cannot beat companies on release frequency. We can't. We can't beat them on whatever kind of star-cast they are able to pull through. We can't beat them on how much production market they have. We can't beat them on what kind of directors they can pull in. Maybe with AI things will change. I won't talk about that narrative now. But if a user still comes to us, there has to be a stronger reason. And that, at least until now, we have internally conjectured and also gotten validated. Otherwise, a company can't exist for 6 years without validation. It's the fact that we are able to provide entertainment in their culture. So that is an important understanding which can also textualize this cultural raffle. There is a point in this. I have a different point of view. As a user, why do I watch content to entertain myself? I don't watch content because it's in Hindi or English. When I watched Hollywood films, the reason was that they had some new stories. Those who are consuming the stage, they are not doing it just for the dialect. They are doing it for the stories. Today, content is being made in abundance. But that appealing story is not so connecting that it can fill it. That's why you have Netflix, Prime. You have all the platforms. But what do we always look for? To find a good content. To find a relatability in it. So, culture. Today, if we project our stories in Hindi or English subtitles, people will watch it. If it's not a story, I'm watching Turkish films, Malayalam, Tamil, I'm also watching Korean. Because I'm seeking for a very different kind of story. Storytelling is also a part of culture. As a human, I think we always look for that story first. So, cultural boundaries. There are a lot of people who are watching our content. For example, in Nata, I think Gujarati people are watching it. There's already a number in it. Yes, it's not that it's Rajasthani. I don't care if it's Haryanvi or Rajasthani. The audience has matured a lot. Everyone is looking for a good content. And our budgets were not that good. Even after that, people found uniqueness in Punar Janam. They found uniqueness in the story. So, I see culture as a unique ball, which is attracting everybody. So, if we make this content today, Rajasthani, Haryanvi, Gujarati, this is for a universal audience. If there's strength in that story, it will appeal to everyone. Not just Haryanvi people. I'll explain it to you personally. You have to personalize it. Let's take Nata as an example. It's a universal story. That's what we believe. The story is not universal, it's emotional. The story is also universal. Because it's emotion is universal. Emotion is universal, that's why it's universal. Offbeat. Something that people don't know about. It's a big thing for the people of the city. It's a big thing. There are many reasons to watch everyone's story. Let's take Nata only. Nata is a Rajasthani film. You said it's being watched in Gujarat. Let's say there are 100 people in Rajasthan. In Gujarat, there will be 20 people. In Haryana, there will be 20 people. Because Gujarat is the most relevant for Rajasthan. But people are watching. It's a universal story. The story will still be the same as it was. But let's say I put a Gujarati rapper on it. So this 20 will be 20 plus 100. It was still universal. But it was universal for a short time. We still run Nata, even Rajasthani, at the stage time. It's a stage time content. When any content is released, it runs at the stage time. But still, that content is the most relevant there. The content of the market. But as soon as that content... We are still in the same time. The content is being dubbed at the same time. But then why does it start giving us more users from that culture? Because you put a culture rapper on it. Rapper is a wrong word, I think. Because of that... It's context is getting set. Like you are saying, distribution. What you did is... You are defining distribution. That's how you are defining it. I want to understand its criteria. Take an example. The desi example, Maggie. This is Maggie. This is Maggie. What is Maggie's job? To quench your hunger. To quench it quickly. And its taste... No matter where you go, it stays the same. This is its core. Do you agree? Now... When Maggie is in the mountains, we eat it differently. When Maggie is made at home at night, we eat it differently. Maggie is sold differently for children. Maggie is sold differently for students. This is Maggie. All these rappers are made out of it. The confusion is happening with the rappers in a different way here. Maggie will remain the same. If the way Maggie is made is ruined... The taste changes. The taste doesn't change in everything. Because what you put in it... Like if you put more vegetables in it, it loses its taste. I didn't say that. I didn't say that. I'm not saying that. The same Maggie is being sold. I'm talking about selling Maggie. I'm not talking about making it. I'm not talking about making it. I'm talking about selling Maggie. But we... I'm not talking about cooking Maggie. Cooking is a different thing here. Maggie's raw core... That is the core of the story here. Maggie's core is the Maggie that comes in the packet. We're talking about that now. We're not talking about how Maggie is made. If it's made, it's different for everyone. If it's made, it's like... Someone has to eat it with vegetables. Someone has to eat it with cheese. Someone has to eat it with tempering. They're all different rappers. Maggie's core story is not changing. In a hotel, the same Maggie for Rs. 50... You can get it for Rs. 700. And at the same place, you can get it for Rs. 10. Audience to audience. Rapper to rapper. Premium to premium. I'll give you an example. Why were we trying to sell Samori as a direct subscription? We were running it on trial. What did we think? Samori is premium. You can get Samori's money directly. So, there's a difference. What does the rapper have to put in it? Similarly, a rapper... I think that culture... The wrong word is coming here. Maybe tam... Or whatever. Can we have a different word to that? I think that's creating confusion now. Maybe it's in the articulation. What are the criteria for distribution? If we leave the word, what are the criteria for the rapper? What are the points that we cater to? Till now, it was dubbing. Now, it will be the productization of the whole culture. Because we didn't know that till now. Now, we will know. Till now, we used to dub the rapper. Now, what we are talking about, what you are working on... Hair will also change. Clothes will also change. As far as emotion is concerned, it will remain as it is. Otherwise, the emotion will also change. It depends on how we feel. Emotions change. Because these things change in the culture. And then, if it doesn't connect to the audience... It's a learning. It's a learning. This is also a learning. Distribution, when we look at it from our point of view, it is distribution. But if we look at it from the user's point of view, I agree with all the conversations. Story is more about emotions. And culture is an enabler, which helps us. I want to see that story. Even for the non-culture audience, sometimes the other culture attracts. Maximize the audience. There is Pushpa. There is a difference between seeing Pushpa in Tamil and Hindi. You see the memes.
It's a meme that travels globally, not a meme, it's an emotion of a punch, of a monkey. So, that is a core universal emotion, and seeing that, in India too, the voice is also feeling bad. It's going around the world. So, that is something, emotion travels across generations, across demographies, all over the place. But, culture, sometimes it appeals to that culture, it becomes enabled, and it also becomes attractive to other cultures. Why people are watching Pakistani dramas? Because, the sister is getting married in the same family, giving conflict to a new story. And we are attracted to what happens in this culture. Because, in India too, according to people's data, or according to emotions, there is love in the siblings, but there is a crave for emotions, that, okay, it's not ours, but we are watching them. Or, in every culture, the same stories produce different kinds of drama. Sometimes, the drama reduces, and sometimes, it increases. So, it also depends. So, it's the same thing that we want to say. It's an enabler, it's a distributor. Look from here, look from there. So, I think, I'm quite clear. It's the same page over there. It's important that it's the same page over there. Yeah, very important, bhai. But, I think it's amazing that we have raised all those points, which created a lot of confusion for everyone in India. I just have one question. I think, like, we have talked about how the story should be deepened, there is a representation of cultures. Now, that we want to increase the time, I think, so, maybe a lot of work also needs to be done in thinking on how do we distribute our content. Distribution is such a strong pipeline of southern films reaching all these places. Attraction is one, but how is it reaching them? So, in those case, if we have case studies of Sabri being liked, of Jhola Shah being liked, of Punar Janam being liked, what is the distribution understanding that we have developed? I agree. At least, what I have understood, the core of that is the time we are developing that story. For example, being offbeat is one way of distribution only. Being a star cast is one way of distribution only. Being an influencer is one way of distribution only. So, how much you can distribute a story, it is in the core of that story. Plus, what all you add on to that story. For example, in Naate, he is a normal actor, but in Naate only, there is Riddhi Pudda, or someone else, for example. So, Naate was the core of the story. In its distribution, you have added one more layer. You make it more with the power of serenity. You put rockets. You put rockets. So, the distribution element, that too, the time you are developing that story. For example, making controversial content is also part of your distribution strategy. Hitting a community. Don't take it otherwise. Like, negative PR is a good PR. We all know. If Padmavati becomes Padmavati, still it makes a hell lot of revenue. Padmavati was created for controversy. Padmavati was created. Same story, just released. So, distribution is also decided when we are creating that story. At the same time, layers are added to it. And we will have to create those layers. For example, if it was up to here, then this cracked. If you add this, then this cracks. What we were talking about, you were not in a discussion. For example, we had a discussion the day before yesterday. You were with me in that meeting. We made 10 different stories with the same amount of money. And we made 2 stories with the same amount of money. But in those 2 stories, we added everything so that it became relevant for everyone. Even after making 10 stories, it was not relevant for anyone. And we added so much in 2 stories that it became relevant for everyone. So, when you are developing the story, at that time, you can add all those elements. For example, a story like Dahiya vs Malik. When we gave the name, there was a fight between 2 communities. They created a controversy. The story is a comedy film. There was a controversy. People came to Akarosh. We changed the name. Just being a devil's advocate, don't take it otherwise. Because this is a room where we can discuss all of these things. How can a film be liked by a person for various reasons? But I think we haven't understood our distribution, strengths or challenges. For example, when we were in Bhuj, Patna, our best performing films were canceled by people for 1 rupee each. Now, that's because it's the same logic. It feels because we did not understand the nuances of a market. If all of the strategy is built on behaviours, there is a certain way content reaches the Bhuj film market. There is a way they consume it. And that's the distribution way. I agree with you. I think there are business calls which go in different ways. Maybe today it's for 1 rupee, tomorrow it's for 10 rupees. It's possible that they don't sell it and directly sell the subscription. It's a very different business call. But it's very important from a perception point of view. For example, Netflix is not available now. It's not available. I think it's a business call and it should be considered 100% in our strategies. I am aligned with what you are trying to say but I think there are many angles in it. But 100% it should be... Even for example, if we think that a content is so dangerous that we are selling it for 1 rupee and spoiling the content. Maybe tomorrow we should have those kind of discussions also. No, let's sell this content directly. For example, there can be different ways of selling different things. Like what we were trying to do. For example, if we make an effort, we have decided in 2-3 contracts. But because of that, the acquisition cost of the user was increasing. And for business, it was not the right time to continue that also. So then we decided that let's go back to trial. Because in business case, trial was making more sense than selling directly. So there are many combinations at the business level. Maybe it's possible that we become so many users at one time that we don't care about the number of new users. For example, if we want to play on renewals, we will stop everything. And for renewals, we will only make content that can attract users again and again. Netflix has become so big today that it can attract 2-3 new users. But it serves its existing users. Because it is such a big user base. So the new acquisition... Matrix changes. Today the matrix of the company is that more new users should come. Plus, we have to serve them too. Maybe in the future, if the percentage of new users is this much, how will the market penetration happen? In Haryana, we have already penetrated 15% of the market. So we know that we have to bring in new users again and again. But in the Gujarati market, it's a different thing. In the Bhojpuri market, it's different. So it depends on how much market you have penetrated. What are the first movers? Tell me about them. There are three movers. Anyway, I think it's a valid question. Yes. Outside the scope of this room for now. But I think the point that Jiddu was making was pertinent. That a lot of distribution hacks are configured in the project itself. Yes. Right? Who are you making it for? Who are you targeting? What are you doing with it? So on and so forth. So for now, to keep the sanity of the room alive, we have put blinkers on what are the distribution hacks or other elements we can put within the content itself. This is a very, very relevant point. Very relevant. And I'm sure you've done a lot of research on these pieces also. But there are a lot of business calls in this. Whether to run a trial model or not. What are its pros and cons? We run trial models because we value exposure to a larger base over upfront payment from a larger base. So that's a different sort of discussion itself. Quickly, let's try to structure this. Yes. And let's do the next meeting with the strategy.
Yes, yes, right, the same framework was being made. We have to solve these two things. Everything that content does has to either solve for this or this. Acquisition and detection. Right. And is there or is there? Okay. If there is? Right, right. Do we know that? We can actually make that a part of the strategy. Right. For example, one piece per quarter should solve for acquisition. Right. That means any framework will be made. Right, so create that. Again, I think the decision we have taken here is that we will not think of regional markets. We will think of formats. Right. So we have a lot of analysis on what is the efficiency of this format. Yes. The principle is still the same that we have to solve for frequency, for depth. And acquisition is added to this. So one chunk is this. Because these two are retention chunks. Right. Right, and in a way, this feeds this. Right. That's how we run the cycle. This is how it works. That until something is not solved on retention, it will not solve acquisition. At least that's the hope we have been running on. I know we have been proven wrong in some places. But mostly works. So let's identify format distribution this time. Yes. And then inject the ideas of persona. This is a question up for debate. Should we do it or not? We should do it. The outcome will still be in the form of a slate. Right? Yes. Instead of a culture slate, now this will be a format slate. Basically, it will be a stage slate and then how it is being adopted in every culture. This will happen. At least that's the imagination. It will be a stage slate that is being adopted in every format. Plus stories can come from every culture. It may be that all the stories come from any culture or not. It may be that all the stories come from Bhojpuri. But it depends on whether everyone is aligned to do it or not. I think we are not killing any format in this. Long, binge, micro, feature and non-fiction. Feature, film and? Microdrama and non-fiction. We have added non-fiction. By non-fiction, you mean reality TV? Anything that is in non-fiction, we need to categorize that. A lot of things come in that. This is a big category that needs to be unlocked. Live is one thing. Episodic is one thing. Saptang is not live, still non-fiction. But Bigg Boss is live. Bigg Boss is not also live. Different formats in this category. This can flow in many ways. Anything can flow anywhere. It depends on where the story is originating from. Permutation combinations, this is the layer we keep intact. If there is a story that originates from a culture, it will become the primary story of that culture. But then it will be thought to flow into all the cultures. But without disturbing the authenticity of that story. Which we were talking about. Is it the same page till here? Yes. This is a big decision. Till the last meeting, we were not on the same page on this. We are not killing any format. Can we make that a decision? I don't think we should end it on a binge. I also don't think so. It's a variety. It's a behavior. It's a mood. So is this locked? It's a user psyche. It's in the mental model of the user. And it has a purpose. It can be an acquisition driver. It can solve both. Acquisition and detention both. A feature film can solve the maximum acquisition. But a binge can solve both. But a feature film can solve the maximum frequency. All are on the side. But just trying to make a case. If anything, I am way more convinced that all these formats have a place. All these formats. In very meaningful ways. Right. There is no bullshit in this. We have removed the mini film. Right. Everyone else is needed. Right. Two points I want you guys to ponder on. Now in the AI native way, I think we should consider two areas. Rather three areas. One is kids. Right. The other is devotional content. Right. And third is music. Right. Kids, devotional and music. Because I feel that this kind of content charting can be done in-house without much effort. It might create a lot of retention value. It might. Could be wrong. But do consider. There are three things in these three. First, let's do some safe-gazing. Kids is a... It's a new time. Example. Yes. Devotional is a genre. Devotional, I feel it's both. It's a genre that will unlock a new time also. Unlock a new time, then whatever you add, it will do. But I'm talking about the primary. Devotional is a genre. And third, you said music. Music. Music is a format. Yes, I know that. So same way, like example, animation. Now animation can be made in a long series also. Animation can be made in a short series also. Yes. So we need to understand that these are all different things in themselves. Now devotional, I can make a non-fiction also. Devotional, I can make a long series also. Devotional, I can make a feature film also. So devotional is a genre as a primary unlock. Right. So this is food for thought. Isn't it? Structure it. Right. What do you guys think? I think the larger thought here is that there are two layers of time which we haven't touched proactively yet. One is there and one is there. Okay. Now after these two, we have a lot of time. And these can be repeat aggressive users of anything. So I think this is the starter thought. Agree. So because now we have a lot of power. Things have become efficient. So we should start thinking AI first environment how we can add the new time which we had left there. Plus how we can unlock devotional as a genre for the new time. And how we can bring music, animations, kids. Means whatever can be opened for the new time. Even how to serve the same time more. Bring all those things in thinking. Even animation is not like the time for which we serve now. If something becomes interesting for that time then maybe that can also be seen. So one, how can the current time be given more depth? And two, how can we open the new times which we had left? Right? Yes. So if we think from the first principle, then we will get a lot of ideas. What should I write here? What can you give depth to the current time? And how can you open the new time? So depth in time. What is the meaning of time here? If you write persona for now, then you will get an idea. For once, let's say, or you can write age group, whatever you want. Persona is in age group. I am writing in examples here. Roughly kids. Kids. Devotional. Or seniors. Seniors. First write this in time. And then there are ways for that. Devotional, animation, music. That is opened in a different way. Okay. That is, one time will become x and one format will become y. If we combine both, something will come out. Then my next question was actually on persona. Now all this is fine. But what matters most is what is inside it. What is the soul of the content? Right? And that has to appeal to a real human being. That equation is not changing. Right? We are still selling to humans. So the content, the fabric, the softer aspect of it has to appeal. And I think that is where we start getting an understanding from persona. That for whom are we made? It is a replaceable component. Right now I am using personas because that is what we did last time. But it could be something else. I don't know. I think the bottom line point is, we need to have some insight in the slate, which talks about the softer aspects of the roadmap.
Like, who are we creating for? Who are we creating for? For example, you know, Renu and us had an interesting debate about the immigrant Rajasthani. Last time around. Right? So, that's a... I mean, she's saying that we have to make a long series. We can't do justice. No, no. It has to be... So, I think that is one axis which has to come in. Or, if you think that that axis is replaced by something else, the nature of that axis is that it has to talk about the soul of the point. Agreed. That should be the central core also that we will be making sure ki jab hum plan karenge toh wo hoga. So, let's... humko ek do din mein, hum brainstorm karte hain. And wo persona ho sakta hai, ya phir persona ke alawa new thinking, humko kuchh aur ho sakta hai. But, uska softer element kya hai? Yeh haan, personas likke hai, usko question mark hain. Haan. Aur wo hum bilkul fractional karte hain. Yeh hai kaani? Sorry. Start synthesizing. I am still not convinced with the binge series wala. Kya yeh format hai? Or is it a release pattern? Kyuki, every good content should have the capability or, you know, the kind of storytelling should have a, like, binge wala toh factor hona chahiye. Chahiye wo long series bhi ho. Otherwise, wo survive nahi kar paayega, long series bhi. Kyuki ek time ke baad, wo behaviour binge mein hi banega logon ka. Updates depend on the go-ahead side. Wo mental model hai for starting the consumption. But hum, abhi bhi mujhe lagta hai, humara historical data hai, teeno culture ka, usko bhi humein review karna chahiye. Review kar lete hain. Ki kitna percent audience hai, wo kitna uska, agar content ko, lambi content ko ya back-to-back content ko dekhta hai, toh what is the average watch hours? Kyuki binge mein agar aap 6 gante drop kar rahe ho, so phir wo sab ke liye hai. And agar, baat ye hi nahi, ki aap 10 episode banana chahiye ho, ya 6 banana chahiye, hum The Heart banana chahiye, ya phir Quora banana chahiye, whatever, jo bhi maasi hai. Toh agar wo binge hoga, toh binge kya hota hai? Ek episode dekhne ke baad, you start like craving. And jab wo ek hafta jata hai, toh wo craving badti hai, and you start discussion with your peer group, toh conversational starter bhi banega hota hai. Wo drop bhi karta hai, maximum users ko, jo binge hi dekhna chahate hai. But uska pattern toh decide kiya jaa sakta hai. We don't drop 2 or 3 episodes, just to build a high intent. Toh again, tum do ek episode se toh aage nikal diya hai na, toh waha pe hi, anything that is more than one. It's a release pattern also. No, I don't think it's a release pattern. It's a user mental model, aap kya capture karna chahate ho. But this pattern toh baad mein aata hai. Pehle aap kaunsa behavior, tumne 3 episode bana ke behavior ko capture kiya hai, nahi ki release plan toh uske baad ki baat hai. Humne intent build kiya hai na, usko us world-class characters ke saath. Intent was to create binge. So yaha pe binge ka matlab kya hai? Binge ka matlab hi hai ki enough, marketing change ho jati hai pehli paath ho. Like, let me tell you, if you will research more on Mahapunarjanam, Jaan Legi Sonam and, we should do that, and Videshi Bahut 2, why still we are not able to acquire users? It's a mental model problem. Videshi Bahut 1 kyon chal gaya tha? Videshi Bahut 2 mein toh zyada drama hoke nahi chal pa raha hai. It's a mental model problem. Videshi Bahut binge was tha. Ek baar mein sab mil raha tha usse. Toh isliye jo maine bola, ki every format is having different purpose also. Binge sold for retention and acquisition both. Long series sold for more acquisition, sorry, retention, less acquisition. Feature film only sold for acquisition. And micro drama don't know. Non-fiction we will figure out. Toh har ussi ke base feature film contract strategy mein fit honge, ki main mahine mein ek bada feature film laun, jisse mer acquisition badta jaye. Wo business ki requirement ho sakti hai. Business ki requirement yeh ki mujhe nahi user laana hi nahi hai, example. Toh then we will decide. Jawaab bol rahe ho ki yeh tin ho show nahi chale, wo aap retention ke lens se bol rahe ho? Nahi, acquisition ke lens se bol rahe ho. Retention ke lens pe... Yeh claim ki agar hum 6-6 episode ki season bana ki ek-ek mahine mein... Aur usko marketing bhi waise karte hai. Ki hey, it's a new content that came up. And let's go for it. People will come and people will commit to give you money to watch that. And the way ki aaye gaah, jab aaye gaah mein hota hai na, toh user trust nahi karta hai aapke upar. Aur user ko pehle aapko bahut samjhana padta hai. Feature film, pata hai, jaate hi milegi, dekhunga mera satisfaction pura ho raha hai. So it's a mental behaviour jo aap crack karte ho pehle. And then uske aage ki saari cheezein. I agree with all the points there. Last time bhi kaafi ispe debate hua tha. Aap thodasa reflect karna hai ispe. For example, agar main anecdotal example doon, I would have not picked to watch Kora if it was a 50 episode thing. Just because I cannot. Just because I don't want to commit to it. Just because I was very comfortable with the idea ki okay, this is 6 episodes. I watch something every night. In a week I can finish it, for example. Just adding, ek saath hone ka matlab yeh nahi ki ek saath dekhnega. Ek saath nahi milnega matlab yeh nahi ki wo wait karega. It's about ki tumne merko choice diya hai. Yeh meri choice hai ki mujhe ek saath dekhna hai, mujhe ek din me alag alag time pe dekhna hai, mujhe ek din me ek episode dekhna hai, mujhe ek din me do dekhna hai. It's my choice. Jab mujhe choice mil jati na, uske base me me decision leta hu ki mujhe iska dekhna hai ki mujhe isko dekhna hai ki nahi dekhna hai. Choice saari mere paas hai. Jab platform us choice ko control karta hai na, wahan pe behaviour change ho jate hai. Isliye every format is giving different kind of choices. Personally, ek example, criminal justice na, jab first two weeks me tha, episode hi kohe jaaye ki agle hafte kya hai, mera interest hi khata ho jata hai. But, Tarak Mehta sahej mo rojana dhirga hai. Kyonki, wo banaya hi us behaviour, us habit ke saath gaya hai. Isliye jo humne baat kari thi, kuch kahaniya hai jo binge me nahi ban sakti hai. Kuch kahaniya hai jo log, ek example, my biggest fear, abhi bhi jo darken ke saath me hai, at least in my heart, it's a donor. It's very big question mark right now also ki, kya hum usko sustain karwa paayenge? Kyonki, jo donor hai na, wo apne aapme hi ek bahut bada question mark hai. Isliye, we are trying to put elements jo usko excited bana ke rakhe. Kyonki, long series ke donors alag hote hain. Binge ke donors alag ho jayenge. Isliye jo even yeh bole na, persona, yeh long series aur culture ke beech mein na, bhi bahut kuch hai jo humne banana hai. Ki, wo, kis base pe, kis length se wo format banega. Hmm. Mujhe lagta hai, nature of storytelling bhi badal jaata hai. Ya, wo to hum 100% Just by that, because wohi hai na ki, mujhe lagta hai ki, wo jo ek content as a product jab aap dekhte ho na, to, there is a certain brand element with it. Ki, mujhe ek certain quality ki cheez dekhne hai. And, a lot of times, when you change the format, you can create that meaningful quality with it. Koi bhi jo khichne wali cheez hogi, usme wo karna mushkil hai. Aap khudi soch ho na, jab aap market mein jaate ho, yeh long series ki baat kaise hoti hai, per episode. Wahan pe value unit hi alag hai. Aante, yeh episode wala ho gaye, wo to TV wala ho gaye. Aur hi baat hai, yeh kyu hai, mol bhaav ka tarika yeh kyu hai. Kyuki unko pata hai ki, bhai, yeh khel hi alag hai. This is an episode wala khel. Jab aap koi kahani manane ki baat karte ho, kya aap per episode baat karte ho? Aap to, to isko justice kaise kiya jaa? Iski production value kya ho? To, mujhe lagta hai ki, nature of storytelling is different. I'm aligned on storytelling aur baaki saari cheeji, mental model. Yeh ki, agar wo binge hai, to iska release pattern kya one drop hi hoga hai? Aur that is... Stereo mere azaap se, this is a separate problem. Criminal justice har tara se aaya hai. I'm sure Amazon has the data. We can try multiple experiments on binge series also. Kya humein paas 8 episode hai. Hum wo bhi kar sakte. But that is a separate problem. Abhi Bhairavi pe humne liya concierge call. Ki nahi bhai, there was a discussion happened. And, bohot strong uspe bhyas hui hai. Ki agar Bhairavi ko... I'm on start off. Wo to 6 episode hai. I know. To wo hum experiments karengi. Alag alag tariqe se karengi. Marketing bhi badal jaayegi.
Heavier will also change, intent will also change, mental model will also change, everything will change along with it. How to release does not question the validity of the format. You understand this. How to release, how it should be done is a separate problem statement. That doesn't make Bing series invalid. Yes. Making is not invalid. Release can be, depends on what we want. That's why it can be a choice. There is a slight impact on the writing structure, even on the duration. Because if it is a Bing series of 6 episodes, 30 minutes, and if its release pattern is very different, then 30 episodes, maybe the genre, maybe the format, maybe the duration able to sustain. So those questions come in this. These are good questions to ask that we should find the answers to. But these questions don't question the existence of Bing series in my view. For all the other reasons that we have discussed. Somewhere or other, the core that we were talking about, which is frequency and depth, and the frequency that Praveen presented today, which is active watch, days. So I think there is also a difference between active watch session or days. We will take days as the benchmark. So this format will solve for the depth in some way. Yes. If released all together. Yes, if released and the seasonal depth. That's why the purpose of every format is different. That's why the lens that I wanted to create in the last meeting was that, of course, we made an amazing decision that the content should be, the content should have a base to solve retention. But every content can't solve retention and every content can't solve acquisition. And if we will not build that lens, then we will come to a wrong place where we will be struggling with acquisition. Yes, acquisition. So that's why I was trying to build that lens that, there are content, there are formats, there are stories, there are genres, there are a lot of things that will drive only acquisition, retention. Anyways, that parameter is being solved through completion rate. But frequency is not necessary that the parameter is to solve retention every time. So it's a combination of frequency, depth and acquisition. And then everyone's ratio can be different. Some are solving acquisition more, some are solving frequency more, some are solving depth more, and some are solving everything. And I am sure there will not be a pattern in this also. If we will release all together, we would still find people who are seeing one episode per day. Yeah. We would still find people who are seeing one hour every day. That also depends on you, but... So, what you were saying, let's do historical analysis. How so? Let's try and answer that question from there. Okay. It will be easy to understand. We have done this a lot. This is our... Yes, yes. Four years old format, five years old. Let's take an example. Mewat and Mahapunar Janam. And in Mahapunar Janam also, let's take an example, when there were so many equal episodes. Let's take the base, let's say there were six episodes of Mewat. And when there were six episodes of Mahapunar Janam, the users who started after that, their behavior, versus Mewat's behavior when they got together. We can do the versus of Videshi Bahu, 2 and 1. It's a same pattern. You can do the versus later. First, pick all the bin series. And just split the user watch pattern. Just look at that. All the users who have seen all the bin series, what was their watch pattern? In that, the picture will be clear. The film matters. How good was the content? How good was the cliffhanger? For example, I put our old content in the script analyzer versus the new one. I can see the difference between day and night. The depth of the character, the depth of the cliffhanger. At that time, I didn't know that much. I put Choudhary and saw that he gave me everything red. I'm putting Bandhan. He gave me everything green. Because today, our thinking has changed. Our ways have changed. We have upgraded. Today, we discuss all those things. Earlier, all that didn't matter. At that time, all that mattered was the story. By making someone helpless. We were struggling with that at that time. Today, we reject until things are according to us. Because today, we have reached there. So, let's put everything in place. So, what goal do we give ourselves for this? Give us 2-3 days. Because now, we want to structure properly on this. So, we will take some time. We will discuss deeply. And then, we will come back and talk. But we will now prioritize this also in our conversations. And we will try to make a big plan.
