Hello everyone, welcome to yet another episode of GratuGuide, where experience meets aspirations. A podcast brought to you by the Ashoka Placement Committee in collaboration with CFE, Ashoka University. This season, we are deep diving into the aspiring journeys of some of the most dynamic founders that Ashoka has nurtured. And today, our guest is Mr. Harsh Manitrapati, co-founder at StageOTT. An angel investor advisor in multiple startups, he also graduated from Ashoka's YF Cohort of 2013. We are thrilled to have you, sir. How are you? Thank you, I'm good. Thanks for having me here. That's lovely. I am very excited that you're here and I just have a few questions for you and I will be trying to prick your brain today. So I hope we have a lovely conversation. Looking forward. So, Harsh, let's rewind the tape a bit. What kind of a student were you at Ashoka? And did you already have a startup bug or did it come later? Right, what kind of a student is tough? I think if I were to say that I embodied the core principles that Ashoka tries to imbibe in any student, I think that would be a true statement. But I don't think you would see me topping the academic charts or you'd see me being the torchbearer, so on and so forth. None of that. But yeah, it was one of the most fun years of my life. It was one of the most transformative years of my life. Yeah, and I totally loved the kind of peer learning we enjoyed alongside our academics, which was of course driven by some of the most inspiring faculty that I've ever had a chance to experience. And goes without saying that the entire mentoring network, the kind of mentors that we had access to, unequivocal. Yeah. As a student at Ashoka, I completely agree. I love the peer learning aspect of it. And the professors, like I am amazed at, like, you know, by them, which also segues us into the next question that I have for you, which is were there any courses, professors or even offbeat experiences in Ashoka that nudged you towards building something of your own? So, I think, so I was an entrepreneur before I joined YF. In fact, my first company I started back in my second year of college, I did engineering from SRM University, I was, I trained as a electrical and electronics engineer. And the entrepreneurial bug had bitten back then. Started my first company in robotics and embedded systems. It was called Willick Technologies. I think what Ashoka did was definitely nurture that bug, you know, in a more sort of constructive direction. And it truly allowed me to immerse myself into all the other aspects that probably was blinded towards. And I think that's, that's been the true role of liberal arts education that I received at Ashoka. It really helped the entrepreneurial journey by refining it, by giving it better direction. And, you know, at the end of the day, entrepreneurial journeys are filled with paradoxes. They're filled with soul-stirring conundrums. Every day, you live in the gray. And ambiguity is a part of your life, right? So, Ashoka taught me how to handle that. Lovely. I'm so glad that you talked about your entrepreneurial journey. I just want to double click on that. And I want to know what drew you towards the act of building something? Was it a particular problem? Or was it just the thrill of creation or something else altogether? I don't think I can pinpoint that one thing specifically. But more often than not, it's a mix of, it's a mixed bag of a bunch of reasons. One, of course, the kind of person that you grow into. You realize that, you know, if you are treading on an entrepreneurial journey, you are naturally curious about a few things in life, right? You have this very strong conviction that there is a particular problem area that you want to go after and solve for. And you cannot be an entrepreneur without enjoying the act of creation, right? You're creating every single day. Probably, it's also one of the most arduous, rigorous creation journeys because, you know, companies and organizations are not built in a day. There are a lot of other creative art forms where you can get from the beginning to the end in a much shorter span of time. But it's very, very tough in the entrepreneurial journey to go from the beginning to the end in a very short span of time. It is very, very long years of your life that you pour into creating an organization, solving a problem, creating a product. Also, the organization is also an organism in itself that you end up creating. The culture speaks for it. It's also the act of creation, how you create the perception, how you create the product, how you create the people. Yeah, it's very thoroughly rigorous. What I love about your answer is the way you mentioned that your organization is an organism. So now I sort of want to steer the conversation towards that organism and talk about stage. So before it became the powerhouse OTT platform that it is, I want to know what was the first spark? What was missing in the ecosystem that you noticed and wanted to offer to everyone? Yeah, so interesting. In fact, we just celebrated our foundation day on the 1st of November. It's been six years. Congratulations. Thank you. It's been six years since the founding of stage. The founding day or the founding phases, memories are still crystal clear in my head. So going back, there were a few insights that we were sort of sitting on through our experiences from WittyFeed. And one of those insights were that people just enjoy and thoroughly love a piece of content if it is delivered to them in their regional dialect. And somehow it turns out that, not somehow, I think now we have answers. We have a lot of answers. But at that time, at the founding time, the question that we were really asking ourselves is that, is there a dire need for people to feel validated, reinforced and celebrated in or through the parts that they identify with? And stage became a medium for that. We are actually not an entertainment company. We are a cultural company that validates, reinforces and celebrates people's regional cultures. And it is a lot more about what they identify with. So going back to the foundation, I think this was one insight that we had sort of stumbled upon really through our entrepreneurial journey at WittyFeed. And we knew that this is a very powerful nugget of truth that mostly in that time and space people did not agree with us on. But the founding team had the conviction that we can go out and build something in this direction. So we picked up that and we stage first started as a platform for artists. It was never the OTT that it is today. It did not start as an OTT that it is today. And over the last half a decade, it's been a winding road to reach here. And also there were so many other insights that we kept stumbling upon one after the other. And eventually all of that came together and in unison created what stage is today. But to your question, these were the most founding insights that we had at that time that we harped upon. Lovely. I also want to talk about the future of stage a little bit now.

OTT space, as we all know, is a little bit cluttered, but Stage is doing something different. You've spoken about OTT++. What does that actually mean and how do you see it redefining the entertainment for Bharat? Right. There's no short answer to this. Take all the time you need. So as we started creating Stage, a few years ago, a phenomenon had unfolded. It was called Jio. What Reliance and Jio did is that they unlocked the access to internet for a huge chunk of the population of the country. The projection said that roughly 750 million new internet subscribers are going to join. We understood that most of these subscribers are going to come from the bottom of the pyramid. Because these were the parts of the society that did not have access to internet at that time. With the internet revolution alongside the Jio revolution, mobile phone prices were dropping and the internet prices were also dropping. Access was pretty much seamlessly being made available. Can you repeat the question once? Yeah. So what does OTT++ mean and how do you see it redefining entertainment for Bharat? So that allowed us to think more broadly about entertainment. And at Stage, while we were thinking of creating an OTT that would address specific needs of the audience, which was like, hey, if you're a Haryanvi, you're actually going to get films, movies, web series in your regional cultural context, in the dialect that you speak and connect with. But apart from that, something more interesting was happening, which was that it was also a product that you would end up using multiple times in the day, hopefully. And it was a digital product. And given that a user would be spending so much time, it all of a sudden opens up a lot of opportunity for us to be able to do other things within the streaming app. So if I give you a couple of examples, when Stage was an artist platform, we had launched something called Tipping. Now this was a fairly simple concept. Now it's very popular. But at that time, it was like that the artists were launching their shows and we allowed the artists to monetize through by their audiences through the medium of tipping, like giving tips like you do. Similarly, a lot of other use cases started getting unlocked, just by the virtue of the fact that an OTT is a digital product, right, and streaming was taking over. So if I were to sum it up, the OTT++, I don't think they're there yet. But in due time, the OTT++ vision is actually about the fact that there are so many more ways in which you can engage your audiences. Giving them content to stream, that of course they enjoy and they love, is probably not the only way in which you can have their true engagement. This was not possible in the era of the cable TV, right, or TV, because most of those mediums were designed as one to many, whereas there's a lot of personalization that can now happen for each of each individual user's experiences. And alongside that, it can also unlock a lot of new things. For example, you know, some community building initiatives, right? It's like, you get to learn something through the OTT, right? So EdTech being a part of OTT, games for that matter, being part of OTT, right? Spiritual practices becoming, being enabled through OTT as a product, right? So this is like, by and large, the entire spectrum of possibilities that exist. And they're more so true in state's case, because we are really unlocking it for a specific regional culture. And in the process of doing that, we are not compromising on how it needs to be tailored for a Haryanvi audience, or how it needs to be tailored for a Rajasthani audience. But at the same time, when we put all of these pieces together, we pretty much will end up creating an umbrella that's national, right? And there is a belief that once we reach that place, we will have a lot more leverage in the equation to be able to do not just streaming of content, but a lot more. So the short answer is that it's a journey that we are on, is the vision with which we approach it. And we'd get there sooner than later. Lovely. What I really like is how consumer centric your product is. And I want to go a little bit deeper into that. So what have you learned about, say, your underserved Haryanvi or Rajasthani audience that enables you to make a product exactly as they would like it? What have you learned about them? What insights? If you would like to share that with us? Wow, that's, that's a whole lot, actually. But again, not here for short answers. So if I go back in the journey, I think one of the first, so I'll talk about the most fundamental learnings that were myth breakers, but also company builders, right? For example, there was this misnomer in the entire industry that India does not pay for content, right? And more so, Bharat will never pay for content. So I hope you understand Bharat. Bharat was this almost a mythical idea that happened post Jio's launch. There's this new set of internet users who are coming in, they'd be called Bharat. And everyone, the stalwarts of the industry, the entrepreneurs as well, the venture capitalists, they all believed that there is no way that you can make money from them, right? So Bharat's launch broke both of those myths, right? And those were also the most foundational learnings for us. So first things first, we realized that there was a clear dearth of, there were a lot of companies doing content, but there was a clear dearth of doing value centric, premium, sensible content for people at large. This is what we learned in our very first few sort of venture outs. When we started doing films and web series, a lot of our users started coming back to us and they started saying things like, Thank you so much for saving our culture. We feel proud of our language when we watch stage films. That was the most interesting inflection point, when we realized that we are not building an entertainment company. We are actually building an identity company. That we are in the business of validating, reinforcing, and celebrating people's identities. The second point of learning was when we started charging subscriptions. The myth all of a sudden broke and the bubble burst and it turned out that people were ready to pay for premium and sensible content that they wanted to watch with family. Now in the erstwhile time, or rather pre-stage era, people hadn't really experimented with this. Most companies which were doing content had treated the Bharat audience as an attention led audience. They were trying to monetize eyeballs because they never believed that this audience would be a value sensitive audience or they would pay for it. I think stage went out there and broke that myth. I think the third most foundational learning that we've had is that in our perceptions we often treat

meet our audiences in the sense that because, so this is how the logic flows, that because these are dialect-first audiences, they must be rural audiences, and they must be poor. It's almost funny how these three things get linked. And I think what we realize at that stage is that language is not about class. It's about identity. And it was another misnomer which was going around. And I'm very happy to report that of the 5 million subscribers that Stage has today, almost 50% of them have come from either tier 1 or tier 2 cities of the country. There's almost nothing like rural audience in the country anymore, because every village has access to internet. By the way, one of the departments that we run at Stage is an ethnographic research department. So we have anthropologists who go on the ground, who do this research, and who do a lot of on-field insight gathering and collection. Very recently, I was looking at research that we had done in the Bhojpuri market. And a young 22-year-old was talking to chat GPT as a companion in a village household. And if you would see that household, you would actually see that this is the immediate experience that it is in a lower economic strata household. But that girl is very proudly using chat GPT, taking film recommendations from chat GPT, also using chat GPT as a companion. Her brother has watched Avengers, has watched Sherlock Holmes. So I think it's very easy for us to live in this bubble. And a lot of these bubbles were broken by our own efforts at Stage. And some very foundational learnings have come through us building in this space. And most of the times, even I wonder how many such perceptions we lead our lives and build. The R&D that you underwent was absolutely beautiful. I've never heard before of an OTT platform having an ethnographic department. And also, I really loved how the insights were so beautiful about how people came and told you that they absolutely loved media in their dialect. So this is absolutely beautiful. And I love how Stage is also going ahead and breaking stereotypes, breaking perceptions. That is really great. Thank you. And I would like to credit Ashoka for this. I also know that not any other OTT, for that matter, but also not many companies lean into things like ethnography or anthropology. And I would directly credit Ashoka and my experience at YF to be able to create, to give me the insight and the direction and the learning and the experience to eventually be able to really deploy this in the most real-world fashion. This is, we're not a social organization. We're not an NGO. We are a creme de la creme corporate. We're a high-growth startup. And we do ethnography to collect insights. Lovely. I hope that really becomes standard industry practice. Here's hoping. Yes, hoping. Moving forward, you mentioned that you have 5 million active users on the platform. Congratulations to that. So I also wanted to know, what has been the hardest scale-related challenge? Has it been tech? Has it been culture? Has it been capital? It's been all of it. In fact, I can talk about scale-related challenges in each of these domains. OK, please do. So speaking of tech, of course, as you scale, and by the way, just a correction, we don't have 5 million active. We have 5 million lifetime. Roughly 2 million active, and our users keep getting recycled. But we have penetrated the Haryana market to up to 15%. And we are at a single digit in both Rajasthan and Bhojpuri now. So as you scale, scaling technology is definitely a challenge. You have to think about what are the algorithms that are going to scale. You have to think about concurrency issues. If so many people will come and start watching all at once, are our systems ready to handle that? Things like those. But I would say those are more easily solved, because we're not the first company that's scaling the technology. That's been a standard practice across the board. Those are more solvable problems. I think the more challenging scale problems are around, for example, around brand and marketing. How do you keep positioning and repositioning yourself? Because with each market segment, you're pretty much entering a new type of user persona. As you keep moving on the bell curve, it's like early adopters are exhausted. Innovators are exhausted. And now you're the early majority. Early majority is a very different kind of a user group. So you have to keep reinventing yourself. And that's one of the most challenging perception and brand marketing challenges. Second, I'd say scaling an organization in terms of people internally is also a huge challenge. Because when the team is small and young, it's very easy for people to be on the same page. Decision making is seamless, because the founders are more hands-on involved. They can really look into the day-to-day and make decisions. But as the company starts adding more and more people, it becomes increasingly exponentially tough to have all the people on the same page. And the culture starts getting morphed. And there's almost like a metamorphosis that happens with each new person that comes. Because now they're bringing something new on the table. And that's also the original reason why you've hired them. But what they also bring on the table is also more misalignment, which you have to then solve for. So that's also been one of the challenges. And it will only exponentially increase from here. So you have to then start thinking very hard about what is the kind of culture we want to build? How do we actually do that? It's very easy to talk about things like culture in abstraction. But it's super challenging to actually go out and implement it, because people are messy. And problems are messier. And in most cases, it is the wetness of water. So forming those judgments, leading with those ideas, it keeps becoming more and more challenging. So yeah, so the tech ones are easier challenges to solve. The people ones are probably the toughest. Brand marketing, repositioning is a continuous sort of challenge. Also, because stage is a very interesting business of we work on two of the most highest leverage opportunities in the world today. We create literally, we write code and create content. These are the two highest leverage things. And we kind of marry the two. So each time we either write a piece of code or create content, and especially because the kind of content we create is a low shelf life content. We have to constantly reconfigure the direction of it. So the content strategy that we could take when we were serving the first million customers was easier. And now the content strategy that we have to create and recreate as we scale the customer base is all the more challenging. Because now you not only have the early adopter individuals, but now you have families watching. You are on TV now. So it's all of a sudden become a household device. And people in the household are watching stage. So now to be able to cater to that subgroups.

and sets of people, we have to reinvent how we configure our content, right? How we program. So yeah, another area of reinvention and challenges with scale. And I think same goes for product and design. Things that worked, as the use cases increase, the complexity of the product increases, the flows increase. And yeah, so I think it's a journey in continuum of hashing out the ambiguity and constantly being on your toes. And you have to lead with innovation and invention and just reconfigure pretty much all pieces of the puzzle constantly. What really resonated with me was, you know what you said about innovation and balance. And I feel like it is really important for any business to reinvent and re-evolve, to keep staying on the top of their game. Moving forward, Harsh, my next question for you is, have there been any moments when you felt really close to burnout or like stage might not make it? What pulled you through those phases or moments? So the short answer is just too many. Almost every week. And I think, so you know, a lot is said in the media folklore about entrepreneurial journeys and how they're roller coasters. But being one, it hits you very differently. I think it's brutal. It's brutal in the sense that, of course, you know, we're not on the border fighting the enemy's army or anything like that. But a lot of these are our internal battles, right? I often say that entrepreneurship is one of the most soul-stirring journeys. And the reason for that is that it really makes you question a lot, right? It makes you question about, you know, why are you doing what you're doing? And every day there are doubts being raised on the whys of everything that you do. And, you know, there are people with counter-beliefs who would often meet you and shun down a lot of your beliefs. And the thing is that most of your beliefs are not validated because, you know, they're still informal beliefs. They haven't, you're in the process of turning them into reality. But that journey is filled with a lot of conundrums, right? So to your question, every day. Because the days are like sinusoidal. You start on a high, or you start low, and, you know, you go through this wave. What is it that keeps you going? Yeah, so coming to that, I think, and I, again, often say this about entrepreneurship, is that if there's one thing that truly drives you, it is that you have to have a certain amount of irrational passion. And the word irrational is very important here, right? No rational person, no sane person can pull through, right? So having that irrationality very safely, safely, you know, carved around the passion is a recipe that keeps you going. And the second thing is, so often I've seen that, you know, especially first-time entrepreneurs or younger entrepreneurs, what they do is they fall in love with the product. They fall in love with the solution. But I realize over time that if you fall in love with the problem that you're going out to solve, then what happens is that until you solve the problem, actually, you are driven by the natural curiosity that you possess to solve that problem. And I think another very important trait to see through these times is that you're just naturally curious. Like you have this almost impatient curiosity that is not going to get quenched until and unless you get to the answers, right? And most of the entrepreneurial journey is actually about you've asked yourself a bunch of questions and you're doing a lot of experiments to get to the answers of those questions, right? So natural curiosity to pursue the solution to the problem that you love is, in my view, one of the most sustainable ways to be at it, right? Yeah, and a bunch of other things that keep one at it is that you need to have a support system, you need to have relationships and thoroughly build them relationships outside of work that sustain you, that support you, that help you. And please take care of your health. At the end of the day, none of this matters. So I think good self-love, self-care, natural curiosity and irrational passion, these are the three things that would pull you through. That sounds like a really lovely recipe. Moving forward, I just have a few questions for you about your life and your past experiences. So you've mentioned that your day consists of like various ups and downs. What does a typical or variations of your days look like and what part do you look forward to the most? So my schedule is pretty tight in the sense that I'm mostly collaborating with people, right? The variations are basically the different permutations, combinations of people that I collaborate with, right? Which is defined by what problems am I choosing to solve on that particular day, right? What are the collaborations that are required on that particular day? So, and I'm sort of like speaking from the work point of view, of course, there's this entire personal part of the day outside of that. But on a day-to-day level, I'd mostly be in back-to-back meetings. And most of those meetings are collaborations with either marketing or product or content. As a founder, I try and chase the hardest problems. I think that's the other thing that drives me is that it's almost like that I have the blinkers on and I'm looking for the hardest problems at stage. If it's a people and culture problem, I'll go after that. If it's a marketing problem, I'll go after that. If it's a product problem, I'll go after that. And I also think that one of the core jobs of a founder is to really put their neck on the line and take the accountability to solve the hardest problems for the organization. So I try and invest a lot of my time on that. And so most of my day is structured in the order of priority of the problem statement on the scale at which it's going to impact stage. And of course, it's also a lot of fun to collaborate with people. We have some brilliant people working for us. I love spending time with our colleagues, jamming on problems, just the regular day-to-day of going out for lunch or having a relaxed evening, things like that. Sounds amazing. What part do you look forward to the most, if there is one? I look forward to the most challenging problem statement collaboration. Interesting. And I generally schedule it in the first half of my day because I want to be at it at my peak cognitive capacity. And I don't want to attack it when I'm drained out. So literally, I'm looking forward to the first meeting of the day the most because it's the most challenging problem in most cases. And I want to give it my best. That sounds really interesting. And your philosophy reminds me of eat the frog, in which you target the most difficult problem first and then you move on to less challenging parts. Yeah, thank you for sharing that. And now that you've said it, it does connect. Yeah. My next question for you is something I'm very interested in personally. If you could teach a course at Ashoka, what would it be and who should take it? Oh, that's a very interesting question. So I think before I answer that question, I want to really talk about one of the things that I've imbibed through Ashoka. Yeah. And it is something that's helped me the most throughout my journey.

it is the confidence that you can really unlearn anything and learn anything right. I think most people out there get very set in their ways or they start attaching identities to their profession and you know what their background is and so on and so forth but for me I think that one year at YF essentially really ingrained this in my you know in the fabric of my system that you are not professionally attached to any of your professional identities. You are a medium of getting things done and as an outcome what you have unlocked is the capacity to unlearn anything and learn anything pretty much. Yeah so that's really helped me a lot personally. I have been able to take on things that I had absolutely no idea about like for example you know I never thought that I'll become I mean in a very crass way a film producer right but then going through that film appreciation course on an arts appreciation course really instilled that confidence in me that hey you could actually take on anything that you put your mind and heart and soul to. Now to your question oh if I were to take a course I would possibly I would like to take a course that I would be most proficient at delivering and which in my view not a lot of people can really structure as a program right. So the obvious the usual suspects are entrepreneurship, product, you know business, marketing so on and so forth but actually I would not do that because I know that there are these structured programs that one could take and going back to my learnings from Ashoka I would really want to do something that's that's really unique to how I as an individual can add value and I think one of the things that through the journey of entrepreneurship I personally believe that I have let's say develop some expertise over is the idea of how to do the internal work to tackle ambiguity in your life. So yeah so I think there's not a lot of like structured programs there that do this. I also think it's a it's a real hard need of the hour and I think the need is only going to exponentiate from this point onwards because the world as we speak is becoming more and more ambiguous and in the times to come the levels of ambiguity are going to increase. So I think as a human, as a fellow human being it's very important that you are able to center yourself when you face these ambiguous circumstances and yeah I would love to probably take that on. I would genuinely love to take that course. Now that moves us to the last question. Who should take it? I think everybody. I don't think this is limited to any particular cohort. Absolutely, I agree. I feel like everybody needs to work on themselves because the work that you do on yourself shows in everything that you do. So I absolutely agree. Now moving to the last question for the podcast today. For students who want to create something but are scared of being too bold or too unconventional, what would you advise them? I think it's funny that it seems like paradoxical but most situations in life are paradoxical. Yeah I think the single most important advice is that you have to take steps to move over or rather like develop some amount of threshold of courage. So what are the kind of things that you can do to reach there? You know and once you are able to build up to there I think the rest of the journey is pretty much taken care of. I mean when I reflect on my journey there were a bunch of things that got aligned and pushed me to do those very small baby steps. For example, college entrepreneurship. It was a fun project and in most cases a lot of us have things that we enjoy. I would say that you know identify things that you love and you enjoy the experience of not the idea of. Pick those things and make a project out of that and just make an assimilation of such small small projects. What happens is that it eventually starts building up into building the final threshold of courage. Because through these baby steps you are able to accumulate a lot of validation for yourself. So I don't think I would have ever become an entrepreneur if I was not a college entrepreneur. Not because my college startup was I mean it was not an economical success but what it really taught me was the fundamentals of business. How to bootstrap a company. It taught me how to build a team. It taught me what it really meant to lead a company. In all of those small baby steps a lot of validation was hidden. A lot of confidence building junctures were there. It turns out that when you've done enough of that and you eventually summate all of it. It turns out that in most cases you've built that threshold. So yeah the practical advice is that do these take the baby steps. Don't take the leaps first. Take the baby steps. Accumulate a lot of this courage till you have the threshold and then I don't think the question would really even bother you. Because you would have reached that place where you'd be like hey hell yeah I'm gonna do it. So while it's paradoxical but you know most interesting things in life are paradoxical. I think that's really beautiful advice and yeah like sometimes the only way to do the thing is to do the thing right. I think that is advice I'm definitely taking away and I really enjoyed our conversation today. In fact like I made a lot of notes and I feel like this conversation obviously will help everyone who sees it but it also really helped me today and I'm definitely gonna be taking away most of these ideas with me. So thank you so much Harsh today. Thank you so much. Thank you for being here with us. I absolutely loved our conversation and it was a pleasure having you here. Thank you so much. Thank you.

