are too tight, it is an issue. Now imagine, we understood that if it is too tight, it is an issue. But what is the problem when it is too weak? What will happen when the hammock is too weak? When you will sit on it, you will fall to the ground or the pelvic muscles might, you know, the hammock material will go all the way down and not supporting your weight. That's also a problem. So we need to be in between and in balance, control and coordination. That is our goal, which we are targeting during the pregnancy and during our classes as well. Not keeping it too tight, not keeping it too weak, but in balance. And keeping it tight also comes as per the trimester wise. So during the first trimester, when we are already, when we are just wanting, when we are just at the point where the weight of the body is increasing or the weight of the uterus or the weight of the baby is increasing, we want the pelvic floor to support. That is the point when we want it to be supportive and not to be too weak. So that time we increase the kind of exercises where we are wanting to keep it a little tight. That's why during the second trimesters, we don't want to hold the malasana or hold the lower squats for a lot duration because we don't want to loosen it too much at that time. Okay, so during the second trimester, we don't want the baby to come down early. We don't want early labor. When the weight of the baby is increasing as it is giving too much pressure on the pelvic floor, we want the pelvic floor to hold the baby for a little more longer until we reach our labor. So that is the point when we want to keep it tight. Right? So that is how we are adding more of dynamic movements. Okay, again, coming back to the point that when I say squats, this is not a generalized suggestion for everyone, as it comes with variations of trimesters, variations of any complications, histories and a lot of other things. Yeah. So as we are doing this, but a generalized understanding for you, second trimesters, we don't go for too much of loosening of pelvic floor. Right? But as we move towards the third trimester, now what we want is the baby's descent down. And now when we are coming close to labor, maybe say 35 plus weeks when you are ready to deliver somewhere 37 weeks or maybe ready to deliver, your pelvic floor is still holding the baby or it is too tight. Will it help? No. Right? You want it to loosen so that the baby's descent is helping the muscles to loosen. If it is too tight, it is resisting the movement of the baby. It is resisting baby's movement downwards. Am I making sense to all of you? What I'm talking about? So now do you get a gist of why do we want it to be dynamic, not too tight, not to lose or in just a second, not too tight, not to lose, but in a dynamic, flexible motion in a balanced, controlled and coordinated way. Yeah. So just take this few seconds to sink in of the trimesters or just visualize how the pelvis is or whatever trimester you are in right now. Just take a few seconds to visualize how your pelvic floor might be, how the baby might be, must be there. Just soak in a little bit. There's too much to understand. I don't want to overheat you with all the information. Just take this time to soak up. Relaxes out. So as we are moving towards labor, we want it to be a little tight also, but ready to loosen when we want it to loosen. That's why it is said to keep it in our control. The variations of the exercises in the second trimester and third trimesters are also different. The duration for which we are holding or the type of exercises or the depth of the practice is different. That's why there's a different patch for Gerber and Lingoprep of course. So your pelvic floor impacts how you move, breathe, lift and even recover every single day. So as I already mentioned, of course, it is necessary to keep it in our control during pregnancy, but it becomes a lot more important to keep it in our control after the delivery process during your postpartum. Because that is the point. One of the most important things one of the most common thing that the ladies face after delivery is incontinence. That is loss of being able to control the pee. So again, as I already mentioned, the key is the pelvic floor. So how the pelvic floor is impacting your recovery also. Breath we have definitely seen. How the movement is important. We just saw right now how the movements of squats and everything is important to train the pelvic muscles. Breath, how it impacts or moves the pelvic muscles. Of course, the lifting and the baby's lifted movements during the second trimester and the first trimester is also necessary and how the pelvic floor is helping in that. Recovery, every single day we are working on the pelvic floor, not just to deliver better, but to recover better after delivery as well. So it is not just during pregnancy, guys. It is not just the way you deliver. It is also for your own personal recovery process. That's why it is important to train the pelvic muscles. How you are seated, the effect, the pelvic muscles affects the posture as well. As I already mentioned, it is attached to the base of your spine and the base of your spine sets the posture, how you are seated. Either you are hunched or you are way too stiff or you are at an easy, confident posture. That also depends on the pelvic floor. The pressure and how core actually functions. All of the muscles are interrelated. The core, your diaphragm, your pelvic floor, all of it are related. When you understand how to work with your body instead of against it, everything changes. So as we are saying, when we are in the third trimester and we want to loosen, so we want to loosen it. We don't want the pelvic floor to resist that. So we want to work with the body and not against it at every phase. And one of the most important point comes here to listen to your body. The more you are connected to your body, the more your body will automatically tell you what is the right movement for you, what is the right intensity for you and how to build that movement. It is with continuous practice and building that awareness with yourself. Unless you build that awareness, no matter how well you are, you know, how many such workshops you are attending, it might not help you unless you are very much aware of your own body. This is of course adding to that awareness, but your personal awareness towards your body will help you a lot during the delivery and even the recovery process. So that is how it matters majorly during pregnancy and partly during the recovery as well. So how can you identify that your pelvic floor is weak? So there are a few points as you can already see. One is that I have already talked about a lot is urinary incontinence, heaviness, dragging or pressure. So when we feel a lot of pressure, of course, that is unavoidable during pregnancy, but sometimes few of the ladies experience a lot of it, which which makes walking even difficult for them sometimes. So we want to make sure that we make it even difficult for them sometimes or setting up standing movements, very simple movements, day to day life movements also very difficult for them to do. That is a symptom of a weak pelvic floor, a lot of low back pain, hip pain, a little bit of all these symptoms are okay, but you don't, but a lot of it or unbearable amount of it becomes the point when you can begin to work on your pelvic floor. Constipation, as it is also supporting your core and abdominal organs, intestine being one of it, your gut being one of it. If it is not well trained and the bowel movement, as I already mentioned, the
