pelvic floor also controls your bowel movement. If it is not in your control, you might tend to have constipation or maybe other gut related issues as well. So sometimes when we are constipated, we only work on our diet and maybe not on our movement or feeling the pelvic floor. So that can be the key to solve your constipation issue sometimes. So during pregnancy, we hear a lot of people dealing with constipation. Of course, a lot of things are changing, but keeping that in control by training the pelvic floor, keeping in mind all the other things as well. So I'm not saying only if you train your pelvic floor, it will be great or it will be sorted. Unless you work on your diet or a wholesome lifestyle, it will not work. Just working on the pelvic floor also won't work. But a balance and mixture of everything, the holistic thing that we always talk about, that is something that will help you deal with it. But I'm just pointing out here that constipation, if you're constipated and if you're already working on your diet, you have good walking and there's good mobility, then try to work on your pelvic floor muscles as well. That might be a reason of your constipation as well. Difficulty controlling bowel movement, as I already covered that. Pelvic pain, pubic pain or discomfort. A little bit of it is there as a lot of changes are happening, but with a good movement and a strong pelvic floor. A strong pelvic floor, what do I mean by that? Not too tight or too loose. Strong means dynamic and flexible, that you are able to have that control over your pelvic floor. And a very later aspect, if the pelvic floor is not at all supporting, it's very weak or it's very tight, it can also appear as a bulge in your vagina, which is an extreme case, but just to mention it later. Now, as we go ahead, I would want to take your mind towards one of the major things. Okay, I'll first want to mention that before you read it out for yourself. It is one of the major things that we have, we might have definitely come across is Kegels. Right? Kegels, Kegels, Kegels exercise breathing, pelvic floor tightening and loosening. I'm sure most of them, if not all, at least 40% must have heard that word. Kegels? Yes. Come on, at least interact. Oh, yes. Hello. No, not started with it. Okay. No. Okay. So I see few of you have heard, few of you haven't heard. First, I'll tell you what Kegels is. Kegels is a sort of pulling in your muscles in the pelvic floor in and loosening it. Okay. So it's the same feeling of you holding your pee and you letting go of your pee. Can you just maybe for a round or two, can you do that? You don't have to do it with your hand. I'm just showing it. Tighten, pull it in and loosen it. Can we all do that? Can you feel it? Yes, that is Kegels. Nothing much complicated, but just maybe for business purpose or whatever it is. It has been much, very much popularized as like a lot of other breathing techniques as well. But yeah, that is what Kegels is and what it does, if you see, it is tightening and loosening. But what if we practice Kegels when the pelvic floor is already tight? Do we want to tighten it more? No, right? So Kegels is not always very facial. And what if we practice Kegels during our 35th week maybe when we are ready to deliver? Do we want to pull it up? Do we want to pull the pelvic muscles up? Pelvic floor up, right? We want to loosen it, right? So there are, this is the biggest myth that Kegels helps. And when a pregnant lady hears this, she begins to do Kegels right from her first trimester till the day she delivers. And maybe very frequently, maybe every day or maybe every hour it becomes her habit. Impacting her pelvic muscles. So you don't have to trust blindly. You have to educate yourself well and you have to understand why we are doing and what we are doing, right? So I see a lot of messages there. Can you please repeat what Kegels are? So Kegels is nothing but just tightening the pelvic floor and loosening it. Visualize you are holding your pee and letting go of that pee. That is Kegels. Kegels are helpful when you practice it during your initial trimesters. By this I mean during your first trimester and your second trimester. You can do that up till 35 weeks as well, but not very frequently. Not every time or not every day. Also depends on your pelvic floor, how tight it is or if it is loosening, it depends on that as well. So it is really helpful during your first trimester and even in your second trimester. But in the third trimester, you begin to decrease the frequency with which you are practicing the Kegels. Second trimester, you can do it once a day or you can do it once a week. So you can do it once a day or you can do it once a week. So you can do it once a day or you can do it, you can do it once a day, maybe for a few minutes. You just sat down and you are doing it. If it is too loose, if the pelvic floor as per your doctor is too loose, you can take it more tight and not focusing much on loosening. It depends a lot on that way as well. So pelvic floor Kegels, the pelvic floor care, the only thing to practice is Kegels. It is the easiest thing, of course, because you don't need to do anything, you can do it right away as you are seated or if you are sleeping wherever. But that doesn't mean that is the only thing or that is the thing that you need to focus on just. So overtightening can cause pain, difficulty in pushing during the labor, as I already mentioned, because during labor, we need to push and not hold, we need to loosen and not tighten. And also it might cause tearing while pushing if your pelvic floor is too tight. What not to do? Constantly sucking your belly in. So you need to loosen and relax your belly. Doing aggressive Kegels all day. No, you don't need to, it is harming you, it is affecting you negatively. Don't do that. Holding your urine frequently, that is something, of course, we all know we shouldn't do and we should try not to do that. So one thing to keep in mind, ignoring heaviness or leaks. So sometimes when, as I've already mentioned that when you don't have much control on the pelvic floor or it is too loose, you tend to have incontinence. So that is a sign that your pelvic floor is weak. Overdoing squats without awareness is also one thing that we should avoid. So that's why it becomes important to understand the way the pelvic floor is functioning, how it is working different in different trimesters as well. Yes, that's the biggest myth about Kegels that I wanted to bring it out here in front of you all. And how to take care of it during pregnancy, the pelvic floor, there are a lot of different things. Majority I have already covered, but just to bring more things to you is the diaphragmic breathing, the relaxing breathing techniques. The diaphragmic breathing which I already made you practice was that hands by the side, we inhale and expand, feel the muscles expanding like a ring. So visualize your rib area like a rubber ring. As you inhale, it's expanding from the sides, front and behind. When you do that, the diaphragm muscles already moves down and which goes up to the pelvis area. The diaphragm doesn't go down, but the breath and the movement goes down to the pelvis area, impacting that and it gives that amount of strength to that pelvic muscles to tighten and lose it. That's why we focus a lot on breathing as well during pregnancy. And maintaining a good posture throughout is also important. If you are just keeping loose all day long, or you are sitting on a very hard surface throughout the day, maybe you are working.
