Divya ji, I mentioned in the first trimester we want it to be a little on the tighter end so that it is not falling way too fast with the weight, increasing weight. That time we wanted to hold up till you deliver or when you reach your third trimester. We need to keep it tight and that's why we take the practices as for it that it is not to lose and also that with the weight of the baby it is sinking down. We don't want to sink it down way too fast in the early weeks of the pregnancy. So that's how it is important to keep it tight as well. And to keep it tight whenever we are doing sports, it's more of dynamic. It's more of holding when we move towards the third trimester, which we'll lose in. So that's how it is helping in the first and second trimester. No, so the pain someone in the name, can kegels be done by Xorbitz Problem Smothers? No, that's a really good thing that you brought up. Thank you. This is something that not everyone should do unless you take it from, you know, personalize. If you have any problems or any specific restrictions with the movements, please take a personal guidance regarding it. Practice this only if you are general and without any complications regarding this. I think I mentioned what is perineal massage. Pregnancy these days, I feel a sharp pelvic pain at night. While sleeping and also doing exercise like cat and cow, what should I do? Pranjal ji, so a lot of sharp pelvic pain before sleep, what did you ask? While sleeping. So what you can do is before sleeping, you can go with a little bit of movement, something like simple standing hip rotation. What happens when you rotate your hips, it activates the blood circulation. So what happens when we are sleeping sometimes, it is remaining in a standing posture for a longer duration, which reduces your blood supply, because of which there are certain sort of pains. So before sleeping, a gentle movement, a little bit of movement can help you to keep your blood flow a lot more active. That will help you ease your pain. That is something that you can add before sleeping. Little bit of pelvic movements. It can be pelvic tilts, it can be hip rotations that can help you. And during exercises like cat and cow, what should I do? Take it as per your intensity, Pranjal ji. And try the massages. It shall also help. Core tightening and pelvic floor movement after giving birth via C-section. Anchal ji, core tightening and pelvic floor movements after C-section. We generally, we comment after 3 to 6 months, but of course, depends on your doctor's advice. Practice session of pelvic floor in IMOMS. I don't know what session are you talking about Gauri ji, so I am not very much aware of what that is. I have pain in the pelvic region when I start working. You can try massaging before working, Akriti ji. Can you tell something specific about pelvic floor exercises for 3rd trimesters? Nishita ji, a lot of them are there. It can be holding malas, standing side lunges, elevated lunges. So these are the exercises that help in 3rd trimesters. Kandasana, Dharyasana, these are some things. And if you do the labor prep yoga, you will already have a good, majorly a very good idea about what we do there. I worry that cervix should not open too much too early. Can pelvic floor exercises cause too much opening of cervix before time? No, Samina ji. So if it is a well-guided under a professional, it is not at all a risk of, it doesn't bring a lot of, it doesn't bring a risk of opening of the cervix before time because we are taking the practice as per the trimesters. As I already mentioned, a good care of it is given during the practice. So that is not a risk. But of course, it depends on person to person. And we take a good care of it. But if you are with certain complications, it can go that way. But if not, it is generally not at all that way. Does baby position like upyara or routine change how my pelvis floor behaves and can targeted movements help rotation? Yes, I would say the first question, oh, the question went ahead. Changes how my pelvic floor behaves. Not how specifically your pelvic floor behaves when the baby is in what position, but... Oh, is someone sharing screen? Okay. But yes, targeted position, what happens is, when we are movements, when we are taking some movements, we are creating more space in which we give more space for the baby to move. That's how it can help you. And I think that is the last question I need to take for today as we are here. So I hope this workshop was helpful for you. Thank you so much for joining in. Thank you so much for joining in. And I hope I was able to help you a little on it and educated you a little on it. Please, Hans. Okay, guys. So the questions that you have can be now carried forward to your care manager. From there, she can guide you further. I'm so sorry. It was a very informative session. Thank you so much, everyone. I'm glad that I was able to help you a little on it. Have a happy pregnancy ahead. Take care. Enjoy your Sunday. Thank you, everyone. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Thank you.
