so the surface is way too hard. These are some things that you need to keep in mind. Keep the surface softened. Maybe if you're sitting on a chair, place a soft cushion underneath so the muscles are at ease. The pelvic floor is relaxed. It is not giving tightness from below. Yeah, so maintain all of this. Maintain a good posture. Of course, relaxing is also important. A lot of things happens when you relax. When you relax, your whole body muscles relaxes. Your nervous system relaxes. When your nervous system relaxes, you release a lot of tension from the muscles, which brings the muscles to its natural state. So that is one thing which is very important. I already covered the last point, which is relaxation. And relaxing your whole body, covers your jaws and everything. Reducing guided, of course, we are here, so we are doing prenatal yoga and massages. So perennial massages is also something that reduces the strain on the pelvic floor muscles. Massages can be with gentle hands, not very much pressure. Also depends on how comfortable you are. Massages are something that actually relaxes and activates the blood circulation. Whenever we have any sort of pain, whenever we have pain and we massage, we activate the blood circulation. So massaging is also one thing that is really effective at this time to release the strain from the pelvic area. If you face any sort of pelvic pubic pains, massaging is something that you can try. You may or may not use oil, that depends on you. That is okay. And relaxation is something very important at this phase. So you need to give yourself some time to sit, breathe and relax. And if you are not yet attending the classes, begin attending the online yoga classes. That is something that educates you more and also brings that practice in you to keep your pelvic floor strengthened. Not just your pelvic floor, we include all the full body mobility there. So that's of great importance for you at this time. And now as we move towards the delivery, after the delivery process, the postpartum care, it becomes very important to have that gain after. So what happens during the delivery, specifically during the natural way we are delivering, it loosens the pelvic floor very much. Because as you push, it is completely loosened at that point in time. So we want to gain that control back over the pelvic muscles. But gently and not with much pressure as the pelvic floor is supporting a lot of organs still there. It's still acting like a hammock for you. The hammock is not yet gone. It is still there. Though it is a little loose, but it is still there and we want to bring that, you know, flexibility back to that muscle. We need to be gentle with it and not go for major core exercises at that time. What happens when we overdo with the core during the postpartum? If you might have heard about mummy tummy or diastasis recti, it creates divergence between your core muscles. So that is something that happens if you give too much pressure on the core during your postpartum, which we don't want. So simple basic practice you can begin with is to start with gentle breathing. The natural way of breathing will help you have that strengthening and loosening. Loosening and flexibility will gradually come back naturally. Yeah, that is the best and the easiest way to begin with your pelvic floor control after your delivery process, which can be done whenever you are ready for it. That is something which is never restricted at any point. Yeah, gentle activation. Avoid heavy weight lifting at the early postpartum. Watch for heaviness or bulging as it's an extreme case, but still there. Yeah, and postnatal yoga, of course, gently guided practice can help you as well. So what are the things that you need to be very careful about and you need to seek help is you need to consult a professional when you are facing persistent leakage. Severe pelvic pain, which is unbearable, which is restricting your daily movement, sitting, standing, lying down, or a little bit of it is fine again. But if it is very severe, if it is uncontrollable, seek professional help. Feeling of something falling down, you know, like it's the same feeling when you are sleeping and you fall, you feel like sometimes you fall down a building. A sudden feeling like that might happen when it is too much pressure on the pelvic floor, it might just break down. So that is the point. If you feel that, that is the point when you consult a professional. Painful recovery, early help is, so whenever there is a very painful recovery after the delivery, it is very painful. You consult a doctor and when you take help early, you take steps towards a faster recovery at that point. So that's how it works. And now we take this time to sum up of all the things that I have talked about and pelvic floor is not just about tightening. We definitely understood that it is not just about tightening. It is about training it, training it with awareness, not just tightening, but preparing for loosening as well. It supports you through pregnancy and birth and even beyond that. Breath is your best tool during your pregnancy, during your delivery and after your delivery as well to recover and have that control over that area. Strength plus relaxation is equals to balance. It's not just the physical practice guys. It's also with the relaxation. How well are you able to relax your body? How well are you able to relax your muscles? It should be a balance between the both and not just the relaxation. You also need to use those muscles to train them to strengthen. That's why the classes that we have live is also of much importance. So care now for a smooth recovery later. If you have that control over it now, it becomes much easier for you to recover later. So these are the key points that I would like to sum up with that pelvic floor is as I have been taking this from the beginning like a hammock. The more you keep it loose, the more it will sink down, the more you keep it tight, it might break off. So you need to keep it at a flexible level, at a controlled level where you are able to tighten it at the point you want. You are able to loosen it at the point you want. So that's how I would like to sum up and I hope I didn't overwhelm you with all the information about all of it. And now I can go with some what is perennial massage. So the massage over the pelvic area with the hands softly is can be termed as perennial massage. Also help in postnatal yoga. Yes, we do have postnatal yoga Pragati ji and your care manager can guide you maybe after your delivery, you can inquire right now also. How does jaw loosening helps? Okay. So what happens is when you keep your body tight, when you are tightening, it is not just tightening your jaws, it is tightening your whole body, it is giving signal, the nervous system is giving signal to the whole body to tighten. Suppose, somewhere you are, there's some scary thing coming from around. Will you just do this? Is it your specific muscles that is tightening? No, your whole body somewhere is. Right? So that's how when you are tightening or when you are loosening, it is mostly in your overall body muscles. So loosening the jaws signals your body to relax, signals your muscles to relax and loosen. That's how jaw loosening helps you in relaxing the pelvic floor. There is one breathing which is the horse breathing which we do in our sessions in which we relax our jaws which in turn helps to relax the pelvic floor. Yeah, so that's how it is connected. How birthing ball helps pelvic floor? Birthing ball, as I mentioned that whenever we are seated on a hard surface, you're giving too much pressure on it. Birthing ball is a softer surface, right? So that's how it is helpful and also I'm not a birthing ball expert. So I won't go deep into it but a basic knowledge that I have about the surface that I just mentioned. Maybe you can ask your care manager to share more on it with you. I'll just scroll up there.
