Next ideas, few don't have any idea about what pelvic floor is and few says it is for strengthening, it is for supporting, control urine and bowel movement. Yes, of course, cronchology it does that. Okay, so I see few of the few of familiar faces also, as I see in my classes. So I'll give a brief about myself as well. My name is Sheetal Anand. I am a pre and postnatal expert, and I also take workshops regarding pelvic floor labor and on breathing and in the exercises you need to do, and how to recover after the delivery, that is what I do. How do you do that during the postpartum as well? Or how and why? And not why, but of course, we know why, but how do we begin exercising after the delivery thing? So that is also an important aspect of it that I'll be covering regarding the pelvic floor. Okay, so it will be great if I can see you all. If you can keep your cameras turned on. Hi, Hi Kaungori ji. Okay. Okay, guys. So, as this is all about pelvic floor, I'll be sharing my screen. Just give me a thumbs up if my screen is visible to you. Yeah, it is. Great. So the topics that we'll be covering today will be regarding pelvic floor, what it is, why it matters, and how to care for it. Care for it, not just during the pregnancy, but how to care for it after the pregnancy also. We'll be talking all about it. But as it is all inclusive workshop, what do I mean by that is all the trimesters and weeks of pregnancy are here. We can't focus more on just labor where the pelvic floor engagement requires more, but I'll be trying to cater to all the trimesters and covering how the pelvic floor is in first, second and third trimester as well. So overall, I'll be catering to it and not much exercises, of course, we are not doing today, but I'll try to include a few screen shots that you can during the labor specifically. So this is the point that we are doing, but this needs to be kept in mind that anyone restricted with movements or with any complications, maybe low-lying placentas, position, cervical stitches, or any other personal complications. Please don't follow that generalized advice. Every case of pregnancy is different, but if you are with certain complications, it becomes a special case which needs special attention and maybe some variations in the exercises and breathing as well sometimes. So we take it as per it. So in case if you are with certain complications, please don't follow the generalized advice. I'll try to include as many variations as I can for the complications as well, but let's try to understand that we can't cover all of it in just one hour. So what is pelvic floor? Why it matters and how to care for it? So there are two things that comes when I say pelvic floor. One is the pelvic floor bones and one are the pelvic floor muscles. Pelvic floor bones can also be just visualized as a shape of a bowl. Visualize the shape of a bowl. How it is? It is covering from the sides. Remove the bottom part. We are not talking about the bottom part. It's just the sides of the bowl covering your organs there. So that is the pelvic floor bones. But now when we talk about the pelvic floor muscles, pelvic floor bones can also be renamed as pelvic girdle, the hard part which you feel. So everyone, I want you to do a small thing. So just place your hands by the side exactly where you wear your lowers. Can you feel that hard part, some spiking out part, bony area? Give me a thumbs up if you can feel that. Are you here with me? We all can feel that? Yes, can we feel that? So we can feel that, right? There is a small, not a small but a hard area. So that is the beginning of your pelvic girdle area. Just a second, I'll check the text. Unfortunately, you won't be able to switch on the video. That's okay, Divya ji. Apply it on. That's absolutely fine. What to do if I have severe pain with pelvic bone while lying down or sitting up? I'll take the questions towards the end. I'll try to cover as much as I can with the questions. So we can feel some hard part of it when we touch it. So that is the beginning of your pelvic girdle. And when you sit, those are the sit bones. So there are hip muscles. Muscles are there in the hips. But what is above the muscles? There is the bone. So that is the covering of the pelvic area. So it's like a covering here. Okay, now when I talk about pelvic muscles, what is the pelvic floor muscles? If you can see this, it is a group of muscles and connective tissues that form a bowel-like structure at the base of your pelvis. So I am sure the visual will help you understand this better. The pelvic floor muscle attaches from the pelvic bone, which I just mentioned about the pelvic bone, like a bone structure. It attaches the pelvic bone to your tailbone and from one sit bone to the other. So as I already mentioned, the sit bone on which we are actually sitting right now. Think of it as the foundation of your entire bone. So visualize all the organs in your abdomen area. The liver, kidney, the intestines, the uterus, the vagina and the bladder. All of the organs just sitting on that pelvic bone. Pelvic muscle I would mean. Holding all the things up steady and supporting that. So that is the pelvic floor muscle. Another visualization that I would want you to keep in mind to make it easier for you is a hammock. Have you all seen a hammock near a sea beach or something? So the pelvic floor muscles are like that hammock. Yeah. Can we all relate to it or just imagine or visualize maybe with this visual or maybe with the visualization of a hammock? Yes. Now imagine that you are sitting on that hammock. And what are you right now? You are all the organs. When you are sitting, just imagine how much pressure there is on the pelvic floor. On that hammock. So that is the thing that it makes it important to keep the pelvic muscles engaged or work on the pelvic floor muscles. Yes. Are we here when I am saying that? Do you now get a gist of maybe just a small idea? We don't go very much deep into the anatomy of it, but a basic understanding for better referencing and just to be more aware of it. Yeah. So that is the pelvic floor. And as you can see the pelvic floor, it's what all organs it is supporting and how it is connecting from the back of the spine, the base of the spine, that is the tailbone area, how it is supporting majorly the uterus in the center. And can you imagine when the uterus is expanding during pregnancy, how much weight it puts on the pelvic floor muscles? So that's why it is important to train the pelvic floor muscles. And now when we are going ahead towards the training of the pelvic floor muscles, it becomes important to understand how we are doing that. So before that, we shift on to what does the pelvic floor do? Can the functions hold the pelvic floor? It is there, but of course it is supporting the organs, your pelvic organs, the bladder, uterus and the rectum. But exactly all of the things that it helps us in, as already someone mentioned in the chat box, that pelvic floor also helps to control the bowel movement, the controlling of the pee and the holding and letting go of the gas. So these are a few things that pelvic floor helps us to do. So sometimes we also come across a lot of cases during pregnancy specifically of incontinence, which is that they are not able to control or hold their pee. What is not in their control is the pelvic floor muscles.
